source/labs/index.md, before:

# arXivLabs: An invitation to collaborate
![arXiv Labs icon](images/smileybones-labs-icon.png){.mkd-img-thumb align=right alt='a bubbling beaker with a smiling face and crossedbones behind it' role=presentation}

arXivLabs is a framework for enabling the arXiv community to contribute to arXiv and develop tools that can benefit the scientific community. Current projects are featured in our [arXivLabs showcase](showcase.md).

arXiv welcomes anyone, from single individuals to large companies, to contribute ideas and share their products and services, as long as they abide by arXiv’s values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy.

**arXivLabs** projects are categorized under the following criteria:

<ol class="color-blocks">
  <li><strong>Community</strong> Projects that leverage arXiv services, and have an operational agreement or understanding, but are maintained and deployed fully outside of arXiv. These projects may need funding to offset costs.</li>
  <li><strong>Platform</strong> Experimental projects maintained by external collaborators and deployed (in whole or part) on arXiv infrastructure. These projects must meet additional technical criteria.</li>
  <li><strong>Core</strong> Experimental projects that add a great deal of value to the arXiv platform, and which are deemed feasible to maintain by the core arXiv IT team, may be incorporated as a core feature or service.</li>
</ol>

<!-- To apply to the arXivLabs community, learn more about the [criteria](criteria.md) and then [propose your project idea](project-proposal.md). -->

<!-- <a href="project-proposal" class="button-fancy">Click to submit your idea <span> </span></a> -->

_*arXiv Labs is back from vacation. As of December 2022 we are open for reviewing new proposals. Please email <a href="mailto:arxiv-labs&commat;arxiv&period;org">arxiv-labs&commat;arxiv&period;org</a> if you have something to propose.*_

See [criteria](criteria.md) for arXiv Labs projects.

It is not necessary to be part of a Labs project to use the arXiv APIs. Many projects that use APIs and other methods to access arXiv's metadata, full text, or source files are **not** arXivLabs projects. Learn more about [arXiv API access and data usage here.](https://arxiv.org/help/api/)

_Note: Use of the names “arXiv”, “arXiv.org”, “arXiv Labs”, “arXivLabs” and associated logos, web addresses, and colors are only allowed with the explicit written permission from the arXiv management team._

Commit message:

Put in links to Jira Service Desk portal for proposal and questions

source/labs/index.md, after:

# arXivLabs: An invitation to collaborate
![arXiv Labs icon](images/smileybones-labs-icon.png){.mkd-img-thumb align=right alt='a bubbling beaker with a smiling face and crossedbones behind it' role=presentation}

arXivLabs is a framework for enabling the arXiv community to contribute to arXiv and develop tools that can benefit the scientific community. Current projects are featured in our [arXivLabs showcase](showcase.md).

arXiv welcomes anyone, from single individuals to large companies, to contribute ideas and share their products and services, as long as they abide by arXiv’s values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy.

**arXivLabs** projects are categorized under the following criteria:

<ol class="color-blocks">
  <li><strong>Community</strong> Projects that leverage arXiv services, and have an operational agreement or understanding, but are maintained and deployed fully outside of arXiv. These projects may need funding to offset costs.</li>
  <li><strong>Platform</strong> Experimental projects maintained by external collaborators and deployed (in whole or part) on arXiv infrastructure. These projects must meet additional technical criteria.</li>
  <li><strong>Core</strong> Experimental projects that add a great deal of value to the arXiv platform, and which are deemed feasible to maintain by the core arXiv IT team, may be incorporated as a core feature or service.</li>
</ol>

<!-- To apply to the arXivLabs community, learn more about the [criteria](criteria.md) and then [propose your project idea](project-proposal.md). -->

<!-- <a href="project-proposal" class="button-fancy">Click to submit your idea <span> </span></a> -->

_arXiv Labs is back from vacation._ As of December 2022 we are open for reviewing new proposals. Please <a href="https://arxiv-org.atlassian.net/servicedesk/customer/portal/6">use our support portal</a> to fill out a proposal, or ask questions.

See [criteria](criteria.md) for arXiv Labs projects.

It is not necessary to be part of a Labs project to use the arXiv APIs. Many projects that use APIs and other methods to access arXiv's metadata, full text, or source files are **not** arXivLabs projects. Learn more about [arXiv API access and data usage here.](https://arxiv.org/help/api/)

_Note: Use of the names “arXiv”, “arXiv.org”, “arXiv Labs”, “arXivLabs” and associated logos, web addresses, and colors are only allowed with the explicit written permission from the arXiv management team._
