arXiv news archive from 1991-1994
=========================================================

(Haphazard collection of messages from before Summer '94; see also from ['94-'96](/new/94-96.md))


### July 1994

First Web interface installed at babbage.sissa.it (PG).  
\[As for e-mail interface, all design and implementation done first at Los Alamos, then simply mirrored in Italy.\]

* * *

### Jun 30 1994

Date: Tue, 28 Jun 1994 12:22 -0800 (PST)
From: MPESKIN@SLAC.Stanford.EDU
Subject: Re: hep-ex cross-listings

Usage note on cross-listing from hep-ph to hep-ex:

Since the subject of the e-print archive hep-ph is elementary particle
phenomenology, any paper posted to hep-ph is potentially of interest to
experimentalists who post on hep-ex.  Thus, there is a strong tendency to
cross-list from hep-ph to hep-ex.  The "management" of the e-print archives
discourages such cross-listing.  The original reason for creating hep-ex as
a separate archive is that there are many more theoretical papers than
experimental papers, and so experimental papers need a haven from the
deluge of theory.  This purpose is defeated if excessive numbers of hep-ph
papers are cross-listed to hep-ex.

A paper should be cross-listed from hep-ph to hep-ex only if it falls 
in one of the following categories:
 1) The paper contains a nontrivial analysis of experimental data
    (e.g., a new fit to parton distribution functions).
 2) The paper concerns specifically the uses of theoretical results
    in experimental analysis (e.g., the announcement of a new Monte Carlo
    program for the radiative corrections to Bhabha scattering)
 3) The paper offers a specific criticism of an experimental analysis
    (e.g., a note pointing out that a certain radiative correction has
     been omitted in a paper posted to hep-ex)

The "management" thus recommends:
 1) That theorists cross-list to hep-ex only papers in the three categories
    above.
 2) That experimenters subscribe to hep-ph, thus removing the need for 
    cross-listing.
 3) That all users of the archive heap scorn upon authors who cross-list from
    hep-ph to hep-ex for the sole purpose of garnering extra publicity.

* * *

### Apr 30 1994

actual physicist complaint:
> Well, I personally don't have the slightest idea what "point your www client
> at http://xxx.lanl.gov/" means. ... I learned to use mosaic the way most
> people do: by having someone who knew how to work it show me what to do.
> And that was click on stuff.
(see explanation attached below)

www = worldwideweb, originally developed at CERN for physicist use.
mosaic is one of a number of www clients (for X, others include 
lynx for unix/vms/dos (vt100 mode); macmosaic (mac); Emacs/WWW;
winmosaic and cello (windows); midas, tkwww, viola, and chimera (X);
OmniWeb.app and the original WorldWideWeb.app (nextstep); and more).

http://xxx.lanl.gov/ is an http URL 
("hypertext transfer protocol" Uniform Resource Locator). at command line type
  Mosaic http://xxx.lanl.gov/
(similarly for lynx) and it will open to the specified url. (or if already
running, punch the "Open..." button, 5th from left at bottom of mosaic window
\[or hit cmd-o in OmniWeb.app, or hit g in lynx, etc.\] and paste in the url
to open to the desired network resource.) then add to hotlist or bookmarks.

the www interface on xxx currently processes over 5000 messages / day.
while still a fraction of the e-mail activity, it has proven 
far more efficient and reliable  (and now, courtesy of louise addis,
includes citation searches linked through the spires database at slac)
-- and will be the primary mode of access in the future. (for time being, 
there remains something for both power users and network losers.
note that this system remains opposed in principle to bulk e-mailings.)

for further info, a hypertext version of the comp.infosystems.www
"frequently asked questions" is available by pointing your www client at
 http://siva.cshl.org/~boutell/www\_faq.html .
 > Well, I personally don't have the slightest idea what "point your www
 > client at ..." means.  Or at least I didn't until a few minutes ago.
a plain text version is also available via the e-mail command \`get wwwfaq'
to any of the e-print archives at xxx.lanl.gov 

* * *

### Apr 28 1994

hep-ex@xxx.lanl.gov is an e-print archive for high energy experimental physics
(by popular demand of peskin).

cdf "evidence for..." top quark paper is network available from (at least):
3Mb .ps     follow www link from   http://fnnews.fnal.gov/top\_news\_release.html
1Mb .ps.Z   via www  http://libnext.slac.stanford.edu:5080/hep-ph/9404/top.ps.Z
678kb .ps.gz via anon ftp from xxx.lanl.gov as /hep-ex/papers/9404/top.ps.gz
             (requires gnu gunzip utility), or via www follow link 
              from hep-ex frontpage           http://xxx.lanl.gov/hep-ex/
               \[or use  http://www.het.brown.edu/news/top\_cdf.ps.gz \]
note: a good previewer is worth a thousand trees

* * *

### 1 Apr 1994

cmp-lg (= Computational Linguistics) archive installed at xxx.lanl.gov

* * *

### December 1993

New Web interface designed and installed directly on http://xxx.lanl.gov/ (PG)

* * *

### Dec 14 1993

 previously undocumented commands: fput/freplace
 allow file submission via anonymous ftp to xxx.lanl.gov:/incoming , e.g. 
    ftp xxx.lanl.gov
    cd incoming
    put mypaper.tex
 then send an e-mail message with title/author and abstract delimited by \\\\'s 
 in usual format
To: arch-ive@xxx.lanl.gov
Subject: fput mypaper.tex
 (where arch-ive = hep-th , hep-ph , gr-qc , nucl-th , or hep-ex )
 and paper will be transferred as usual. also allows multiple files, e.g. after
 depositing mypaper.tex and myfigs.uu to xxx.lanl.gov:/incoming , use:
Subject: fput mypaper.tex myfigs.uu
 or to replace a pre-existing 9407001, after depositing via anon ftp use
Subject: frep 9407001 mypaper.tex myfigs.uu
 (filenames above are descriptive -- anything goes).

 for further descriptive info, e-mail a message to arch-ive@xxx.lanl.gov with
Subject: get [fput.help](http://xxx.lanl.gov/help/fput)

who needs it?  for those who experience no problems with e-mail submissions,
makes little difference. but some sites still have routers that truncate or 
otherwise corrupt outgoing e-mail (e.g. ibm routers in the u.k. with 
misconfigured ascii/ebcdic conversion), or have other problems.
users at such sites can deposit via anonymous ftp with no such problems.

 note that if your site has difficulty receiving files larger than 100kb
 via e-mail, you should use the cget command to send in smaller pieces
 \[send a message   Subject: get cget.help   for more details\], or use anon
  ftp or www to  retrieve)

* * *

### 1 Nov 1993

From the xxx mailbox:
>  Date: Tue, 5 Oct 93 18:07 CDT
>  Although it would be nice if all people could get Unix systems, there are
>  some people who are stuck with VMS systems but would still like to use
>  the LANL bulletin boards and to obtain uuencoded, compressed and tarred
>  files from the Internet or to write such files.  I have spent a good deal
>  of time testing various packages on the Internet for these tools and have
>  found packages that work.  Here is a set of programs, VMS executables
>  and help files for tar, uudecode, uuencode, compress/uncompress and gzip.
>  I hope you will make them available in uudecoded, uncompressed, untarred
>  form so that those hapless VMS users who, like me, do not have access to
>  Unix machines may ftp the executables and helpfiles and so enjoy some of
>  the benefits of having a Unix machine.

files available via anon ftp in /software/unixtools on xxx and babbage.sissa.it

>  Date: Wed, 11 Aug 1993 19:51:26 -0400
>  New software for drawing Feynman diagrams:  FeynDiagram is a library of
>  C++ routines which allow you to draw high quality PostScript Feynman
>  diagrams by writing a short C++ program to describe the diagram (ie. where
>  the vertices and lines go).  Knowledge of C++ is not necessary, but a C++
>  compiler is.  A tutorial-style manual is included.  The package may be
>  obtained by anonymous FTP from strange.tn.cornell.edu (128.84.251.21).
>  The filename is pub/feyndiagram.tar.Z

* * *

### 1 Oct 1993

short-term difficulties experienced by this system should be resolved.
xxx now runs on new hardware with greater capacity for ftp access.
an additional longer term problem is to identify sources of funding
for electronic infrastructure so that systems such as these can be properly
capitalized, improved, and expanded. it is useful to maintain constant
encouragement and constructive input to your favorite funding agencies.

* * *

### Sep 1993

New hardware for xxx.lanl.gov provided by DOE HEP

* * *

### Jun 10 1993

  \*\*\* \*\*\* \*\*\* IMPORTANT CHANGE readthis IMPORTANT CHANGE readthis \*\*\* \*\*\* \*\*\*
  \*\*\* \*\*\* \*\*\* importantchange READ THIS importantchange READ THIS \*\*\* \*\*\* \*\*\*

the e-mail \`get' command has been changed: 
 \`get' will no longer automatically split files larger than 100kb when sending.
  \[multiple files requested via a single get, and figure files, will continue 
   to be sent out as separate files.\]

a new command \`cget' behaves as \`get' did formerly.

why were files cut apart in the first place?
 some mail routers rudely reject files larger than 100kb 
 \[frequently without warning to intended recipient\]. in addition, bitnet
 routers queue files according to size, so longer files can take forever.
 most internet users, on the other hand, can receive larger files
 without difficulty and find it a needless nuisance to recombine the pieces.

so how does one know whether to use \`get' or \`cget'?
if you have ever had difficulties sending or receiving large files, use \`cget'.
 if you request a large file and it does not arrive, henceforth use \`cget'.
 if your problems are due to a decnet or bitnet router, you should buy a unix 
  workstation for yourself or for your group, and get it connected to internet.
  if you are on one of the few internet subnets (e.g. .saclay.cea.fr) that has
  a 100kb limit, fulminez apr\\\`es les responsables.

warning: this system is already programmed to get upset if you repeatedly
 request large files which some mail router repeatedly bounces back to
 no-reply@xxx.lanl.gov.
note: there will be a trial period before these software changes are installed
  on e-print archives exterior to xxx.lanl.gov.

* * *

### 15 May 93

economics archives installed at econ-wp@econwpa.wustl.edu

* * *

### April 93

WWW interface set up on mentor.lanl.gov (carlson)

* * *

### 1 Mar 1993

nlin-sys archives (adap-org chao-dyn comp-gas patt-sol solv-int) intalled on xyz.lanl.gov

* * *

### 1 Feb 1993

two messages of crucial importance to you:

1) the bull-bd's based at xxx.lanl.gov will henceforth send out daily listings
   only mon-fri (still early a.m.). that means papers received fri-sun
   will be announced mon a.m.   the intent is to  a) avoid the typically larger
   number of bounced messages over weekends (due to sys people even more out to
   lunch than usual), and  b) allow the excessively obsessive to get a life.

2) some small text files received in response to a call for bull-bd related 
   software are posted as follows:
 a) local e-print server that buffers requests to the main servers, and informs
    local users of files already requested within a local group, and their
    consequent pre-texed availability.  maintains local abstract database
    for more efficient find. some automated texing implemented.
      for more info and availability:  get localserver
 b) info on recently implemented gopher servers for the e-print archives that
    use WAIS indexing and give window-oriented (gui) access. standard client
    software already available for X-windows, nExt, macIntosh, etc.
    some automated texing implemented in client software for X-windows.
      for more info and availability:  get gopher
 c) emacs utility for fully automated ftp'ing and (la)texing (including
    processing  of uufiles-encoded .ps files)
      for more info and availability:  get ep-tools
 d) information on free internet availability of unix utilities such as tar,
    uncompress, and uudecode for macintosh users.  for more info:  get macinfo

 as always, you are encouraged to use a single get for multiple requests, e.g.
 if for some reason you want all four files
        get localserver gopher ep-tools macinfo
 files are also available via anonymous ftp in the papers/macros directory.

 information concerning WorldWideWeb servers and some additional software
 will be posted at a later date.

 as always, if you haven't already you will be much happier if you get a unix
 workstation for yourself or for your group and get it connected to internet
 (N.B. this is not opinion).

* * *

### October 1992

gopher interface set up on mentor.lanl.gov (carlson)

* * *

### Nov 29 1992

software to go?
there are many inquiries into availability of end-user software.
a variety of end-user interfaces now exist, which e.g. maintain local listings
databases, short term storage of requested papers, lists of local users 
who have already requested given papers, rudimentary automated texing, etc.).
if you have developed and wish to share such software, send a short description
(including functionality, machine compatibility, and means of availability)
via "comment" command to this bull-bd where a compiled listing will eventually
be made available via get command.

* * *

### Nov 14 1992

   \*\*\* \*\*\*  \*\*\* IMPORTANT MESSAGE CONCERNING FIGURE FILES \*\*\* \*\*\* \*\*\*

there have been occasional problems with e-mail transmission of postscript
figure files due to linelengths > 80 characters (and, in rare cases, > 1000
characters). in addition, cutting apart and renaming multiple postscript files 
can be tedious and annoying.

SOLUTION:
1) all postscript files for a given paper should be submitted as a
uuencoded compressed tar file.  for this purpose, a unix csh utility called
 uufiles  is now available (via \`get uufiles'). it will prompt for filenames
and create an executable uuencoded file that unpacks itself and cleans up.
(this will also facilitate automated remote processing).

2) use the new \`figures' (or \`fig') command, e.g. Subject: figures 9211001 ,
to submit the uuencoded figures file after \`putting' tex file of paper.
this command insures that figures are mailed out as a separate file (and
also suppresses the pipe through reform which can corrupt uuencoded files
by stripping trailing spaces). 

uuencode/uudecode, compress/uncompress, and tar utilities are also available
for non unix systems (but if you are not using a unix workstation,
you should get one for yourself or your group \[it will be many times more
powerful than whatever you are currently using and is available at a
fraction of the cost\], and get it connected to internet.)
future changes will not be downwardly compatible to dying operating systems.

NOTE: 1) the \`add' command remains, but now functions to concatenate
   additional pieces to (the last part of) a submission (necessary only for
   mailers that limit the size of outgoing files). 
    (\`add' continues to pipe incoming files through reform.)
2) \`fig' command currently available only on four bull-bds based @xxx.lanl.gov

* * *

### Oct 16 1992

      \*\*\*NEW EXCITING COMMAND\*\*\* (by popular demand):  published.
your preprint 9107001 has at last secured validation through appearance
in a recognized journal, and you wish to advertise this joyful event to your
friends and colleagues. you send a message
 To: hep-th@xxx.lanl.gov
 Subject: pub 9107001 Rec. Jnl. 180 (1992) 101
and the info is henceforth accessible via commands: find, list, list \[\].abs, 
and get \[\].abs, but will \*not\* be transmitted in the daily newlistings.
 note: this command is not yet installed at bull-bd's external to xxx.lanl.gov

* * *

### Sep 22 1992

NOTE TO ANONYMOUS FTP USERS: as some have discovered, if you ftp to xxx
multiple times in succession you get denied access indefinitely. automated
scripts for getting files should get multiple files in a single ftp session.

european users should ftp preferentially to babbage.sissa.it, where databases
are duplicated and updated daily. \[this includes, among others, the domains
.at (austria), .be (belgium), .dk (denmark), .fi (finland), .fr (france), 
.de (germany), .gr (greece), .hu (hungary), .ie (ireland), .it (italy),
.nl (netherlands), .no (norway), .pl (poland), .es (spain), .se (sweden), 
.ch (switzerland), .uk (united kingdom), .yu (yugoslavia), ...\]. 

xxx.lanl.gov may be up and down sporadically later in the week for disk
diagnostics. all files are also available from babbage.sissa.it via
anonymous ftp and e-mail request.

REMINDER: european users should ftp and send e-mail get requests preferentially
to hep-th@babbage.sissa.it, where databases are duplicated and updated daily. 
\[this includes, among others, the domains .at (austria), .be (belgium), 
.dk (denmark), .fi (finland), .fr (france), .de (germany), .gr (greece), 
.hu (hungary), .ie (ireland), .it (italy), .nl (netherlands), .no (norway),
.pl (poland), .es (spain), .se (sweden), .ch (switzerland), 
.uk (united kingdom), .yu (yugoslavia), ...,              unless you are 
absolutely convinced that you are "closer" to new mexico in the network metric\]
hep-ph and gr-qc are also duplicated @babbage.sissa.it

ftp to xxx has been provisionally cut off to some domains (notably .it, .ch,
.uk) whose voluntary cooperation could not be elicited (thank you very much).
selective filtering of e-mail \`get's will follow if necessary.

* * *

### Sep 16 1992

\------------------------------------------------------------------------------
\\\\
hep-th/9209055 replaced with revised version Wed, 16 Sep 1992 10:01:01 CDT

Quantum Aspects of Black Holes, J. A. Harvey and A. Strominger, 54 pages with
16 figures (as two uuencoded compressed tar files), harvmac, EFI-92-41. only
change: figure file split into two separate files to forestall confusion. 

MESSAGE OF CRUCIAL IMPORTANCE CONCERNING hep-th/9209055: the 16 figures
for this paper had been (correctly) submitted as a single uuencoded 
compressed tar file using the \`add' command. the uuencoded file exceeded 100kb
so was split up by the outgoing mail routine for e-mail requestors (due to
limits imposed by certain mail routers). NOW HERE COMES THE SUBTLE PART:
\*your\* unix mailer, on \*receipt\* of this mail, adds both a header \*and\* a blank
line at the end of the file. that means if you mindlessly concatenated the two
parts after removing headers with an editor, the \*blank line\* prevented proper
uudecoding and you lost three figures. if you as well removed the blank line,
then everything worked fine.
BUT THERE IS A BETTER WAY: all modern unix mailers have a command w (for write)
in addition to s (for save). the w command automatically strips off
the header and trailing blank line, so you can simply say, for example, 
w 1 2 figures.enc  to combine mail messages 1 and 2 into an uncorrupted file
figures.enc without header. if your mailer does not have a properly functioning
w command, you should complain. (while this system does not make commercial
endorsements, it should be noted that at least one unix operating system has as
well a mail application that automatically uuencodes and tar compresses
multiple files dragged into the send window, and performs the inverse process
on receipt of mail.) there also exist uudecode, tar, and uncompress utilities
for vaxes. there is little excuse for persistent postscript figure fear.

* * *

### Aug 4 1992

the full preprint databases hep-th, hep-ph, and gr-qc at xxx.lanl.gov are
duplicated at babbage.sissa.it (italy), and automatically updated once a day
(shortly after the daily mailings go out). you decide which address is
more efficient for e-mail and anonymous ftp, e.g. european addresses
can avoid the electronic trans-atlantic round trip by sending messages
to hep-th@babbage.sissa.it, hep-ph@babbage.sissa.it, or gr-qc@babbage.sissa.it.
if you enjoy requesting the same paper multiple times within a 5 minute period,
babbage.sissa.it is the place to do it.
if you need to practice anonymous ftp, babbage.sissa.it is the place to do it.
commands that change the database (put replace add cross, subscribe cancel)
must still be sent to xxx.lanl.gov for the time being. other commands
(get find listings ...) are identical to those on xxx.lanl.gov.

* * *

### Aug 2 1992

 in response to popular demand, an automated e-mail address database
 for physicists, e-mail@xxx.lanl.gov is now operational. commands are:
 subscribe, cancel, find, help, comment

 to enter yourself, send a message 

To: e-mail@xxx.lanl.gov
Subject: subscribe your full name

 where "your full name" is your name, not your e-mail address
 (the latter is extracted automatically from mail header). 
\[ alternative e-mail addresses or pseudonyms can also be entered,  e.g.
From: mozart@boojum.cornell.edu
Subject: subscribe N.D.Mozart, N.David Mozart,David Mozart; mozart@lassp.bitnet

 results in the entry

mozart@boojum.cornell.edu   N. D. Mozart, N. David Mozart,David Mozart; 
mozart@lassp.bitnet                                                        \]

 to find an e-mail address, send a message

To: e-mail@xxx.lanl.gov
Subject: find mozart

 it will probably take a few days for addresses to accumulate.
 feel free to share this message with your esteemed colleagues.

 Note: receipt of this message does NOT mean that your address has
       been entered. you must manually subscribe yourself to be entered.
 entries will be deleted automatically after one year, at which time
 you will receive a reminder to resubscribe. participation is voluntary.

* * *

### Aug 1 1992

1) the get command defaults to the current year/month. currently
   get 1  is equivalent to  get 9207201 , and numbers too large for
   current yr/mo default to previous yr/mo. currently 
   get 85  is equivalent to  get 9206285 .
   this helps to avoid typos.
2) the get command allows multiple requests, e.g. get 9206265 9207201
   will return the two requested papers (in separate files).
   this helps to avoid unnecessary waste of network resources.
3) (1) + (2) ==>  get 65 1 2
   is currently equivalent to get 9206285 9207201 9207202
                 \*\*\*(REALLY WORKS, TRY IT...)\*\*\*
   this helps to avoid typos and unnecessary waste of network resources.

it is not necessary to say get hep-ph/9207201 . if you send 
To: hep-ph@xxx.lanl.gov, then it is understood. if you do not send To: hep-ph,
then you get nothing. it is also not necessary to say   get paper#9207201 ,
and it is not necessary to enclose commands in \` 's.

* * *

### Jul 19 1992

1) new bulletin board: gr-qc@xxx.lanl.gov (general relativity / quantum cosmology)
 to subscribe, send a message
To: gr-qc@xxx.lanl.gov
Subject: subscribe your full name
 (Note: suscribe is not a word, and "your full name" is your name, as you
  wish it to appear on distribution list)
gr-qc is a distinct bulletin board with a distinct distribution list,
submissions and requests for papers must be sent  To: gr-qc@xxx.lanl.gov .

2) the find command has been modified to default to past 12 months
Subject: find abc            
   currently defaults to listings from 9108 - 9207
 for previous years use an additional argument, e.g.
Subject: find abc 91       
   finds all occurrences of abc in title/author list for year '91
 multiword searches still work.

* * *

### Jul 14 1992

all files up to and including 9205 are now stored in compressed form. the
change is transparent via email access, since the mailout routine
automatically untars and uncompresses before sending.
via anonymous ftp, get the .Z (or .tar.Z) file in binary mode and
uncompress (and untar) remotely (ftp README for instructions).
in addition, files will no longer be stored in < 100kb pieces
(unless they are explicitly submitted that way via the \`add' command)
but will instead be broken up as they are sent out. all files more than one
month old will be recombined and compressed on an ongoing basis, primarily
to facilitate ftp access. 

* * *

### Jul 7 1992

all files from '91 are now stored in compressed form. the change is transparent
via email access, since the mailout routine automatically untars and 
uncompresses before sending (intermittent problems getting \[still heavily
accessed\] '91 files during brief changeover period are settled).
via anonymous ftp, get the .Z (or .tar.Z) file in binary mode and uncompress 
(and untar) remotely. files will no longer be stored in < 100kb pieces
(unless they are explicitly submitted that way via the \`add' command),
but will instead be broken up as they are sent out. all files more than one
month old will soon be recombined and compressed on an ongoing basis.
this is the first step in the advertised direction of storing only
tar-compressed .dvi + .ps files. this is also the second warning that if you
are not already on a unix system connected to internet, you should stop
procrastinating and get one for yourself or for your group. (such a system 
will be many times more powerful than whatever you are currently using 
and is available at a fraction of the cost.)

* * *

### Jul 5 1992

1) the get command defaults to the current year/month. currently
   get 1  is equivalent to  get 9207001, and numbers too large for
   current yr/mo default to previous yr/mo. currently 
   get 110  is equivalent to  get 9206110.
   this helps to avoid typos.
2) the get command allows multiple requests, e.g. get 9206110 9207001
   will return the two requested papers (in separate files).
   this helps to avoid unnecessary waste of network resources.
3) (1) + (2) ==>  get 110 1 2
   is currently equivalent to get 9206110 9207001 9207002
                 \*\*\*(REALLY WORKS, TRY IT...)\*\*\*
   this helps to avoid typos and unnecessary waste of network resources.

it is not necessary to say get hep-th/9207001. if you send 
To: hep-th@xxx.lanl.gov, then it is understood. if you do not send To: hep-th,
then you get nothing. it is also not necessary to say get paper#9207001,
and it is not necessary to enclose commands in \` 's.

* * *

### Jun 4 1992

\*\*READTHISREADTHISREADTHISEDUTITPENIGNILGGOBDNIMEROMREADTHISREADTHISREADTHIS\*\*\*
some macro packages are available from hep-ph. suppose e.g. you have gotten
a paper that says \\input harvmac . rather than fret away the remainder 
of your day, you send a message to hep-ph with Subject: get harvmac    .
for a list of other macro packages available from here, use \`list macros'

* * *

### May 26 1992

new command: the cross-list (or cross or cro) command allows
             cross-listing papers between different bulletin boards.

suppose for example you are convinced that your recent exciting research is of
crucial interest to both hep-lat and hep-th lists, but you incisively realize
that it is silly to store it in both places. you proceed as follows:
1) you can e.g. first \`put' it to hep-lat
               To: hep-lat@ftp.scri.fsu.edu
               Subject: put
   where it is assigned a number, say hep-lat/9205090.
2) next you send the same title and abstract fields, delineated by three \\\\'s
   in the usual way (sending body as well is harmless, it will be ignored),
               To: hep-th@xxx.lanl.gov
               Subject: cross hep-lat/9205090
this will generate an abstract entry on hep-th with a pointer to hep-lat, i.e.
Paper (\*cross-listing\*): hep-lat/9205090
which appears in daily listings and is as well accessed by find, list, and
list .abs commands. users of course need to be incredibly alert to recognize
that cross-listed papers can only be retrieved from the bulletin board where
they are stored, e.g. in this case via
  To: hep-lat@ftp.scri.fsu.edu
  Subject: get 90
(when getting papers note that the full bull-board/papernum is not necessary,
for a request sent To: the correct bull-board address, simply \`get papernum'
is sufficient. and if you request to the wrong address, nothing will suffice.)

a drawback to this procedure is that the full email addresses of hep-lat and
other cross-listed bull-boards need to be generally known.
a list of known addresses has been added to the help texts. in addition, mail
to hep-lat@xxx.lanl.gov, cond-mat@xxx..., etc., is automatically forwarded
(in general this is less efficient and is preferably avoided once you have
learned the correct address). finally, an extra argument to cross, e.g.
  To: hep-th@xxx.lanl.gov
  Subject: cross lc-om/9205090 lc-om@alcom-p.cwru.edu
can be used to include a possibly obscure address in the listing entry.

if you replace your paper on the remote bulletin board (e.g. hep-lat as above),
then a message, again with only (revised) title/abstract delineated by \\\\'s,
               To: hep-th@xxx.lanl.gov
               Subject: replace hep-lat/9205090
will generate a replacement notification on the daily hep-th listings, so that
those subscribers as well can instantly learn of your corrected references.

papers submitted over the past few months can be cross-listed. this method of
cross-listing is far from fool-proof, but most easily accommodates an ever
growing number of bull-boards that continue to operate quasi-independently.

* * *

### May 10 1992

the slac library has requested that authors include in the title listing
the institutional number assigned to their preprint, typically already
included in the body of the text, e.g.

\\\\
Recent Seminal Results, by Author One and Author Two, 3 pages, EFI-92-15
\\\\

Carol Chatfield, SLAC Library  email carolfey@slacvm.stanford.edu writes:
"We search the SLAC HEP database BEFORE printing out the papers we get in our
subscription.  At first, we use the abstract listing which does not currently
include report #. Author/title searching is much cruder than report #
searching. Institutional numbers should be in the format: "INST (Series) YY-NO"
e.g. ANL-HEP-PR-92-27  (Argonne Natl. Lab High Energy Physics Preprint 1992
27th report).  Each institute generally has its own series, but if help is
needed setting up a report series, authors can contact Bob Gex at SLAC:
LIRYG@slacvm.stanford.edu for help."

* * *

### May 6 1992

by popular request, again these are some other preprint bulletin boards
(with more imminent):
alg-geom@publications.math.duke.edu (algebraic geometry, 460 subscribers)
astro-ph@babbage.sissa.it           (astrophysics, 169)
cond-mat@babbage.sissa.it           (condensed matter, 240)
funct-an@babbage.sissa.it           (functional analysis, 61)
hep-lat@ftp.scri.fsu.edu            (computational and lattice physics, 245)
hep-ph@xxx.lanl.gov                 (high energy physics phenomenological, 564)
hep-th@xxx.lanl.gov                 (high energy physics formal, 1075)
       (funding agencies are informed of the ratio of the last two, as well as
        the far more shocking th/ph "Interest Quotient" of avg #requests/paper)

* * *

### May 5 1992

reform.c has a minor bug corrected, and now recognizes that \\% is a percent
sign, not a comment (formerly a problem only on lines with \\% that
were subsequently wrapped).  get reform.c   for updated version.

someone has provided a reform.exec written in rexx and intended for hapless ibm
vm users. it splits long lines in files so your mailer will not butcher them.
(N.B. cernvm et al.: {\\it no more excuses\\/} for sending out garbled files.)

put now translates hep-th/yymmnnn to hep-th/papernum (e.g. hep-th/9205010)
if you wish to have the number appear in the file.
it is \*not\* necessary to specify hep-th/ when getting papers from hep-th@xxx

* * *

### May 2 1992

on any given day, roughly 1% of the mailers in the world intermittently
bounce perfectly legitimate mail ("hostname not recognized as local", 
"can't find user", "can't find network", "timeout",
"unable to transfer", "insufficient disk allocation",...,
\*\*\*ALL\*\*\* from non-unix mailers; prime offenders are italian, brazilian,
british, and japanese network routers) and this adds up for any system that
processes thousands of messages per day.

mayday (i.e. m'aider, not may fool's) message:
there are now roughly 1050 addresses on the hep-th list, and over 550 
on the hep-ph list (a large fraction on both conjectured to be users primarily
desiring daily verification of their electronic network connectivity).
they are distinct, and papers should be submitted to the correct place;
there really is an automated referee system that has occasionally rerouted
submissions, but it is not fool-proof. 
a means for cross-linking submissions between bulletin boards is under careful
consideration (in the meantime do not submit to more than one), patience.

there has emerged a minor problem with large files. while storage @xxx
is not an issue, most unsuspecting requestors do not wish to be bombarded
with 2Mb of inefficiently generated postscript in 20 separate files,
or 1Mb of tables of calabi-yau intersection numbers (yes, these things happen).
moreover there are many vax vms and ibm vm systems that will reject most of
this mail due to unsuspecting requestor's insufficent disk allocation.

the long-term solution for preprint distribution is as follows:

most files will be made available directly from their source in tar-compressed 
form via anonymous ftp (or other info servers soon to be on-line) and
only lists of titles/abstracts will be routed through a central
distribution point. such distributed access is already provided by many sites, 
more will follow. due to current system and network incompatibilities,
it will undoubtedly take more than a year to fully implement this stage.

in the meantime, submissions should be limited to under 300kb (600 blocks)
(as has already been the case for over 99% of submissions anyway), with a note
explaining how to obtain any additional figure files, etc. via mail,
anonymous ftp, or other)

in addition, if you are not using a unix workstation you should get one for
yourself or your group (it will be many times more powerful than whatever 
you are currently using and is available at a fraction of the cost),
and get it connected to internet. 
a far friendlier environment for electronic networking will result when the
last ibm vm and .bitnet are mercifully eradicated from the face of the earth.

* * *

### Apr 14 1992

do not submit the same paper to more than one bulletin board.
a means of cross-linking interdisciplinary papers will eventually be provided.

* * *

### Apr 10 1992

astro-ph, cond-mat, and funct-an archives installed at babbage.sissa.it (PG). \[using same software already designed, implemented, and running at Los Alamos since Aug '91, and already installed remotely for the hep-lat and alg-geom archives\]

* * *

### Apr 7 1992

hep-lat archive installed at ftp.scri.fsu.edu, running same software as at xxx.lanl.gov

* * *

### Apr 6 1992

due to a software change, if you are using a mail alias to send mail to hepth,
your alias must contain either the string  hepth  or  hep-th.  
otherwise your mail will be rejected.

* * *
<a name="1apr1992"></a>
### 1 Apr 1992

\Paper: 9203227
From: harvey@witten.uchicago.edu (J. B. Harvey)
Date: Wed 1 Apr 1992 00:25 CST 1992

A solvable string theory in four dimensions,
by J. Harvey, G. Moore, N. Seiberg, and A. Strominger, 30 pp
\
We construct a new class of exactly solvable string theories by generalizing 
the heterotic construction to connect a left-moving non-compact Lorentzian 
coset algebra with a right-moving supersymmetric Euclidean coset algebra. These
theories have no spacetime supersymmetry, and a generalized set of anomaly
constraints allows only a model with four spacetime dimensions, low energy
gauge groups SU(3) and spontaneously broken SU(2)xU(1), and three families
of quarks and leptons.  The model has a complex dilaton whose radial mode
is automatically eaten in a Higgs-like solution to the cosmological
constant problem, while its angular mode survives to solve the strong CP
problem at low energy.  By adroit use of the theory of parabolic cylinder
functions, we calculate the mass spectrum of this model to all orders in
the string loop expansion.  The results are within 5% of measured values,
with the discrepancy attributable to experimental error. We predict a top
quark mass of $173 \\pm 2$ GeV, and no physical Higgs particle in the spectrum.
\\\\

* * *

### Mar 31 1992

REPLACED PAPERS: numerous people have requested that submitters of replaced
papers include a (commented out) header in the revised body of the paper
that overviews the changes. in addition a brief parenthetical note
following the revised title should indicate the nature of the changes
(e.g. major conceptual changes, minor grammatical changes, corrected
references, corrected authors, corrected tex errors, ...)

* * *

### Mar 11 1992

local network reconfiguration delayed until unknown time thu 12 Mar between
0100 - 0600 MST (0900 - 1400 GMT). random mail delays likely throughout day.
new IP# for xxx.lanl.gov to be 128.165.23.9 (although should never be
necessary for systems properly configured to use remote lookup tables).

this system has logged an increasing number of attempts at telnet access.
there is no reason to telnet to xxx.lanl.gov. 
if you are trying to use anonymous ftp, then type \`ftp', not \`telnet'.

this system also screens ftp access for forged packets (a standard hacker game)
by tracing back and confirming remote hostname. occasionally this has meant
denied access to legitimate requests from improperly configured machines:
if you have this problem, it will continue until it is fixed at your end.
(there is of course in general little concern about access by physicists, 
but there are many other potential sources of access, hence precautions.)

* * *

### Mar 8 1992

recent stunning development: a high energy phenomenology bulletin board
hep-ph@xxx.lanl.gov has provisionally started alongside hepth@xxx.lanl.gov.
after new software is evaluated, it will be decided if and where to move it
(warning: there may be intermittent problems with the nightly distribution 
during burn-in phase). to subscribe, send a message to hep-ph@xxx.lanl.gov with

Subject: subscribe yourfirstname yourlastname

where \`yourfirstname yourlastname' is replaced by your name which can have 
any number of words and initials (first 1000 subscribers receive special
charter membership).  most other commands are identical to hepth 
(a.k.a. hep-th),  for more information send a \`help' request to hep-ph.

for anonymous ftp access, the papers and listings directories are now
hep-th/papers    hep-th/listings   hep-ph/papers   hep-ph/listings   .

for the time being, papers may be submitted only to one or the other 
bulletin board (a means of cross-linking may be made available later on).
if you are confused about where to submit, use hep-ph the phenomenology part
(whose automated referee system remains in observer mode until its dynamic
syntactic analyzer has collected enough data to conform reliably to 
popularly dictated tastes, such as they are). 

* * *

### Feb 26 1992

UPDATE: hep-th now has roughly 900 subscribers. the automated referee system
has been rejecting roughly one "phenomenology" paper per day
(please stop submitting them). if ssc.gov will require a canonical 10 years
to provide the promised resources for a phenomenology bulletin board, another
location should materialize by early april. (clones of this system are already
operating in other disciplines, and the procedure takes only a few minutes.)
for further illuminating background information about this system and its
successors, \`get letter.tex'

* * *

### Feb 10 1992

in response to requests for a means of including the 7 digit papernumber
directly in submitted files (typically to appear on the title page),
\`put' translates any occurrence of the sequence:
hepth@xxx/yymmnnn
(must be exactly as above) to hepth@xxx/paperno (e.g. hepth@xxx/9201075)
in the stored version of the paper. this particular sequence (note 2 y's for 
year, 2 m's for month, 3 n's for number) does not ordinarily occur in tex 
(or even postscript) files so there should be no danger of unwanted
replaced text.

* * *

### 5 Feb 92

alg-geom archive installed at eprints.math.duke.edu, running same software as at xxx.lanl.gov

* * *

### Feb 4 1992

there is an unadvertised option that allows automated receipt of
replaced papers as well as new ones. 

reply yes to hepth-no if you wish to be added to the replace list.

* * *

### Jan 28 1992

anonymous ftp for getting files is now enabled on xxx.lanl.gov. this is 
primarily useful for nodes whose internet routing is configured to delay mail 
(notably .fr and .uk).  use   login: anonymous    password: yourusername  ,
the relevant directories are  listings  and  papers  (the latter has
subdirectories 9108 -- 9201 ). if you are not already familiar with 
anonymous ftp, this is not a good place to practice. 
anonymous ftp for putting files will be enabled at a later date.

* * *

### Dec 26 1991

top ten requested papers of 1991 (not in order, self-requests excluded):
9108004   9109032   9110011   9110017   9111001 
9111017   9111019   9111052   9112013   harvsamp.tex
least requested: 9110023

* * *

### 1 Dec 1991

as many of you have astutely noticed, slac has "volunteered" the use of
a listserv list to send out the daily title/abstract listings, and the
bulk of the daily distribution (over 750 addresses at last count) has been
transferred to the listserv at slacvm. this has been undertaken to eliminate
certain extremely low probability (but nonetheless sufficiently nightmarish) 
disaster modes that would eventually arise for a list (unexpectedly) so large.

with the exception of 14 nodes (each with > 10 subscribers) that were already
organized to forward locally \[physics.rutgers.edu, yukawa.uchicago.edu, 
physics.ucsb.edu, theory3.caltech.edu,  fy.chalmers.se, pupphy.princeton.edu,
physics.usc.edu, physics.sunysb.edu, sissa.it, amtp.cam.ac.uk,
itsictp.bitnet, jpnrifp.bitnet, phys.tamu.edu, guinness.ias.edu\], most email 
addresses have already been transferred to the list hepths-l at slacvm. 
\[N.B. if you have received a message directing you to resubscribe and you
have not done so, this is the last message you will receive.\]
the change is functionally transparent, except for subscriptions and
cancellations. e.g. to cancel (if you are not among the above nodes), 
 send a message to  <listserv@slacvm.slac.stanford.edu>
 with a line in the body or text (i.e. not subject:) saying
SIGNOFF HEPTHS-L 

all other requests continue to be sent to hepth@xxx.lanl.gov
\[not to hepth-no not to hepth-no no to hepth-not not to hepth-no
which still receives a mind-boggling average of 10 misdirected messages/day\]

accepted papers that the slac library's crack team of experts manage to tex
successfully the first time are entered into the spires database.
papers that give problems of any nature are forever excluded.

a phenomenology bulletin board, hepthp, may start up when ssc.gov
succeeds to get machines configured properly (it is not clear to what
extent this will depend on the outcome of upcoming high level negotiations
with the japanese government), perhaps early '92.

\\bye

* * *

### Nov 12 1991

in response to popular demand to limit the flux of papers,
this bulletin board has adopted a referee system designed as a
faithful emulation of that employed e.g. by the physical review
(except that papers will typically be evaluated within a few milliseconds).

the evaluation is based on a preprogrammed list of keywords, each with an
assigned positive or negative integer (reflecting respectively desirable
and undesirable words). the overall value of a paper is determined by the
signed sum of the number of occurrences of each keyword times its
associated value. papers with value < or =0 are rejected. keywords include
names of current and past fads, authornames (for both paper and references),
macropackages, etc.  the assigned integers are programmed to vary randomly
within given preset ranges to emulate individual variation among referees,
and for additional realism are chosen entirely at random 20% of the time.
the preset ranges evolve dynamically in a neural net that determines positive
and negative contexts of word appearances via a rudimentary syntactic analysis.

submitters of rejected papers will receive a detailed account of the
calculation, so they will know precisely why their paper was rejected.
rejected papers may not be revised and resubmitted.
objections, questions, and complaints will be automatically ignored.

* * *

### 14 Aug 1991

e-mail interface for hep-th put on-line (PG)

* * *

### June 1991

Announcement of proposed hep-th archive sent out for community comment (PG)

* * *

(There's also a haphazard collection of messages from ['94-'96](/new/94-96.md); plus a slightly less haphazard collection of [later messages](/new/index.md).)


