source/help/ancillary_files.md, before:

Ancillary files
===============

**Please note that the ancillary
files feature is *not* supported with [PDF submissions](submit_pdf.md) at this
time. They are only supported for submissions with TeX/PDFLaTeX source files.**


arXiv is primarily an [archive and distribution service for research
articles](../about/index.md). There are limited facilities for including ancillary
files with articles. Such ancillary
files might include:

-   Raw data for tables and plots in the article
-   Program code
-   Additional images or movies
-   Workbooks and spreadsheets

arXiv accepts ancillary material only in support of research articles
submitted. Note that tex files should not be included in this directory. Additionally, no pointers inside your codebase should reference this directory (it will change upon announcement, and any linking may be lost). Full text placed in the ancillary directory will *not* be indexed in searches. For information on submitting supplemental text that can be indexed, please see [this tex help page](submit_tex.md#autoignore).

Submission of ancillary files
-----------------------------

Ancillary files are included with an arXiv submission by placing them in
a directory `anc` at the root of your .tar.gz or .zip submission package.
This is done in the "Add Files" step of the submission process.

For example, if
the submission has one TeX file, one image, and C++ program the tar/zip
submission package might be:
```
    /article.tex
    /figure1.pdf
    /anc/my_program.cpp
```
Ancillary files are stored with a particular version of an article and
thus cannot be changed independently from the article. Different
ancillary files may appear with each version.

Display and download
--------------------

The abstract pages for articles that include ancillary files will
include additional links below the usual article download links. See,
for example, [arXiv:0811.2625v2](https://arxiv.org/abs/0811.2625v2). There is also a
separate page that lists all ancillary files with greater detail than
there is room for on the abstract page. See, for example, [ancillary
files for arXiv:0905.2326v1](ancillary_files.md). In both cases there
are links to each file for individual download. Ancillary files are also
included in the complete article source that may be downloaded from the
[other formats](https://arxiv.org/format/0905.2326v1) page.

Commit message:

makes that this shouldn't contain tex source more obvious, and includes link to the appropriate location in our help pages

source/help/ancillary_files.md, after:

Ancillary files
===============

**Please note that the ancillary
files feature is *not* supported with [PDF submissions](submit_pdf.md) at this
time. They are only supported for submissions with TeX/PDFLaTeX source files.**


arXiv is primarily an [archive and distribution service for research
articles](../about/index.md). There are limited facilities for including ancillary
files with articles. Such ancillary
files might include:

-   Raw data for tables and plots in the article
-   Program code
-   Additional images or movies
-   Workbooks and spreadsheets

arXiv accepts ancillary material only in support of research articles
submitted. Note that *tex files you expect to be compiled must not be included in this directory* --
for how to add source that should be compiled, see the [tex submission help page](submit_tex.html#autoignore).
Additionally, no pointers inside your codebase should reference this directory (it will change upon announcement, and any linking may be lost). Full text placed in the ancillary directory will *not* be indexed in searches. For information on submitting supplemental text that can be indexed, please see [this tex help page](submit_tex.md#autoignore).

Submission of ancillary files
-----------------------------

Ancillary files are included with an arXiv submission by placing them in
a directory `anc` at the root of your .tar.gz or .zip submission package.
This is done in the "Add Files" step of the submission process.

For example, if
the submission has one TeX file, one image, and C++ program the tar/zip
submission package might be:
```
    /article.tex
    /figure1.pdf
    /anc/my_program.cpp
```
Ancillary files are stored with a particular version of an article and
thus cannot be changed independently from the article. Different
ancillary files may appear with each version.

Display and download
--------------------

The abstract pages for articles that include ancillary files will
include additional links below the usual article download links. See,
for example, [arXiv:0811.2625v2](https://arxiv.org/abs/0811.2625v2). There is also a
separate page that lists all ancillary files with greater detail than
there is room for on the abstract page. See, for example, [ancillary
files for arXiv:0905.2326v1](ancillary_files.md). In both cases there
are links to each file for individual download. Ancillary files are also
included in the complete article source that may be downloaded from the
[other formats](https://arxiv.org/format/0905.2326v1) page.
