source/help/passwords.md, before:

# Passwords in arXiv

arXiv uses two types of passwords:

-   User account passwords for accessing your user account page
    ([https://arxiv.org/user](https://arxiv.org/user))
-   Paper passwords for claiming ownership of an announced article submitted by
    co-authors or a proxy

## User account passwords:


-   Details about setting up your account are on our [registration help page.](../help/registerhelp.md)
-   If you forgot your user account password, please see the [lost
    password form](https://arxiv.org/user/lost_password).
-   If you need help recovering an arXiv user account, please [contact arXiv administrators](../help/contact.md) for support.

## Paper passwords:

arXiv maintains [authority records](../help/authority.md) for the works within our corpus.
These are the list of author accounts who are authorized to make changes (referred to as the **owner**).
When an article is first submitted to arXiv, the submitter is the only owner of that work. 
They receive the **paper password** as part of the announcement e-mail when the final 
arXiv-id is assigned. See [authority records](../help/authority.md) for more information regarding 
how co-authors may become an owner. 

If you have not received the paper password for your article after its announcement, 
please contact arXiv administration through the [user support portal](http://arxiv.org/support/general_help) to request the password. 


-   [Claim ownership of a paper using a paper
    password](https://arxiv.org/auth/need-paper-password)
-   [Request ownership of a paper without using a paper
    password](https://arxiv.org/auth/request-ownership)

Commit message:

Updated blog url and added paper password content.

source/help/passwords.md, after:

# Passwords in arXiv

arXiv uses two types of passwords:

-   User account passwords for accessing your user account page
    ([https://arxiv.org/user](https://arxiv.org/user))
-   Paper passwords for claiming ownership of an announced article submitted by
    co-authors or a proxy

## User account passwords:


-   Details about setting up your account are on our [registration help page.](../help/registerhelp.md)
-   If you forgot your user account password, please see the [lost
    password form](https://arxiv.org/user/lost_password).
-   If you need help recovering an arXiv user account, please [contact arXiv administrators](../help/contact.md) for support.

## Paper passwords:

arXiv maintains [authority records](../help/authority.md) for the works within our corpus.
These are the list of author accounts who are authorized to make changes (referred to as the **owner**).
When an article is first submitted to arXiv, the submitter is the only owner of that work. 
They receive the **paper password** as part of the announcement e-mail when the final 
arXiv-id is assigned. See [authority records](../help/authority.md) for more information regarding 
how co-authors may become an owner. 

If you have not received the paper password for your article after its announcement, 
please contact arXiv administration through the [user support portal](http://arxiv.org/support/general_help) to request the password. 

You can retrieve your paper password in the “articles you own” section of your account. Simply click on the “share” icon in the “actions” column next to your paper to obtain the password. 


-   [Claim ownership of a paper using a paper
    password](https://arxiv.org/auth/need-paper-password)
-   [Request ownership of a paper without using a paper
    password](https://arxiv.org/auth/request-ownership)
