source/help/registerhelp.md, before:

# Author Registration

To begin registration, visit the [registration form](https://arxiv.org/user/register).
First, we will ask for your e-mail and you will get to pick a user name
and password. Your user name must be unique and cannot be changed. Your
password must be at least 8 characters long and contain one character
that is not a letter.

Second, we will ask you for some personal information such as your name,
your institution (or organization) and which archives you are most
likely to submit to. We will then verify the email for your account.

*Policy Notes:*

-   It is a violation of our policies to misrepresent your identity or
    organizational affiliation. Claimed affiliation should be current in
    the conventional sense: e.g., physical presence, funding, e-mail
    address, etc. Misrepresentation of identity or affiliation, for any
    reason, is possible grounds for immediate and permanent suspension.
-   Each user may have only one registered arXiv account. If you are
    attempting to register a new account and are unsure if you already
    have an account please contact [arXiv user support](https://arxiv.org/support) .
-   Users must comply with arXiv's [Code of conduct](policies/code_of_conduct.md).

#### Password

As with all passwords, we recommend that you keep yours safe. The
password can be changed from your [personal information page](https://arxiv.org/user/).
If you forget your password, you can [recover your
password](https://arxiv.org/user/lost_password) using your registered e-mail address.

#### <span id="emailchange"></span>Email

If you need to change your preferred e-mail address, for example because
you have changed institutions, then you should visit the [e-mail change
form](https://arxiv.org/auth/email-change-form). This will ask for your new e-mail
address and will send an e-mail with a verification code to your new
address to make sure that your new address is correct.

Commit message:

Update email instructions to counsel paience, contact support

source/help/registerhelp.md, after:

# Author Registration

To begin registration, visit the [registration form](https://arxiv.org/user/register).
First, we will ask for your e-mail and you will get to pick a user name
and password. Your user name must be unique and cannot be changed. Your
password must be at least 8 characters long and contain one character
that is not a letter.

Second, we will ask you for some personal information such as your name,
your institution (or organization) and which archives you are most
likely to submit to. We will then verify the email for your account.

*Policy Notes:*

-   It is a violation of our policies to misrepresent your identity or
    organizational affiliation. Claimed affiliation should be current in
    the conventional sense: e.g., physical presence, funding, e-mail
    address, etc. Misrepresentation of identity or affiliation, for any
    reason, is possible grounds for immediate and permanent suspension.
-   Each user may have only one registered arXiv account. If you are
    attempting to register a new account and are unsure if you already
    have an account please contact [arXiv user support](https://arxiv.org/support) .
-   Users must comply with arXiv's [Code of conduct](policies/code_of_conduct.md).

#### Password

As with all passwords, we recommend that you keep yours safe. The
password can be changed from your [personal information page](https://arxiv.org/user/).
If you forget your password, you can [recover your
password](https://arxiv.org/user/lost_password) using your registered e-mail address.

#### <span id="emailchange"></span>Email

If you need to change your preferred e-mail address, for example because
you have changed institutions, then you should visit the [e-mail change
form](https://arxiv.org/auth/email-change-form). This will ask for your new e-mail
address and will send an e-mail with a verification code to your new
address to make sure that your new address is correct. Please allow up to an hour
for delivery of the verification code, before requesting a new one. If you try two
times and still haven't recieved a verification code, or your verification code 
doesn't work, please contact [arXiv user support](https://arxiv.org/support).
