Submission of PostScript
========================

PostScript is not an ideal submission format, for several reasons:

-   PostScript loses all contextual information.
-   PostScript loses portability by fixing the page size and resolution.
-   Many broken programs on PCs and Macs produce PostScript which does
    not conform to the Adobe specification.
-   Level II Postscript cannot always be printed on Level I printers.
-   <span class="note">Note:</span> a PostScript file created from a
    TeX/LaTeX file will be rejected. There are [good
    reasons](/help/faq/whytex.md) for insisting on LaTeX source if it is
    available.

Unfortunately, many people are under the illusion that submitting
PostScript is ideal because it can be printed directly or viewed on the
screen. Authors who write in TeX should never submit PostScript, except
for figure attachments (see [discussion of benefits of TeX
source](/help/faq/whytex.md)).

If you use an old version of a word processor such as MS Word then
PostScript may be a good option. **However, PDF is usually better if
your word processor supports it.** If you use bitmapped fonts or you
have some other resolution dependence, produce the PostScript file at
300 dpi for maximum portability.

You must submit any figures that go along with your paper. For
PostScript submissions it is best to produce a single PostScript file
that includes all figures. However, you may also submit figures in
separate PostScript (ps, eps) files. Other file formats (PDF, JPEG, PNG,
GIF...) are not permitted.

<span id="port"></span>

### PostScript Portability Hints

-   If possible, select any option to use standard fonts, and to embed
    non-standard fonts in the file. If the word processor uses
    additional fonts other people will not necessarily have them
    available.
-   If possible save as "Level 1" PostScript, not "Level 2". Level 2
    PostScript can contain special commands which only work on newer
    printers. Many people have Level 1 PostScript printers and cannot
    print Level 2 documents.
-   If you are allowed to set the resolution, make sure you produce the
    PostScript at 300 dpi since not everyone has higher resolution
    printers (and the output quality can be very poor when one tries to
    print high resolution PostScript to a lower resolution printer).
-   Make sure that PS generated by a Windows program doesn't start with
    the insipid "bug-fix" control-D (many programs have an option for
    turning this off).
