source/help/physics/index.md, before:

# About the Physics Archive

The physics archive was started in August 1991 and includes astro-ph, cond-mat, gr-qc, hep-ex, hep-lat, hep-ph, hep-th, math-ph, nucl-ex,nucl-th, physics and quant-ph.

You can browse articles and view categories at the individual archive pages:

- Astrophysics [astro-ph](https://arxiv.org/archive/astro-ph)
- Condensed Matter [cond-mat](https://arxiv.org/archive/cond-mat)
- General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology [gr-qc](https://arxiv.org/archive/gr-qc)
- High Energy Physics - Experiment [hep-ex](https://arxiv.org/archive/hep-ex)
- High Energy Physics - Lattice [hep-lat](https://arxiv.org/archive/hep-lat)
- High Energy Physics - Phenomenology [hep-ph](https://arxiv.org/archive/hep-ph)
- High Energy Physics - Theory [hep-th](https://arxiv.org/archive/hep-th)
- Mathematical Physics [math-ph](https://arxiv.org/archive/math-ph)
- Nonlinear Sciences [nlin](https://arxiv.org/archive/nlin)
- Nuclear Experiment [nucl-ex](https://arxiv.org/archive/nucl-ex)
- Nuclear Theory [nucl-th](https://arxiv.org/archive/nucl-th)
- Physics [physics](https://arxiv.org/archive/physics)
- Quantum Physics [quant-ph](https://arxiv.org/archive/quant-ph)

The [moderators for physics are listed here](https://arxiv.org/moderators#physics#physics).

<span id="AdvisoryCommittee"></span>
## The arXiv Physics Advisory Committee:

The advisory committee members serve as consultants to Cornell University and to the [arXiv scientific advisory board](../../about/people/scientific_ad_board.md). All arXiv policy decisions are ultimately made by Cornell University.

*   Chair: [Ralph Wijers](https://www.uva.nl/en/profile/w/i/r.a.m.j.wijers/r.a.m.j.wijers.html) (University of Amsterdam): astrophysics
*   [Jacques Distler](https://ph.utexas.edu/component/cobalt/item/18-physics/422-distler-jacques?Itemid=1264) (Texas): high-energy theory
*   Vice-Chair: [Paul Fendley](https://www.physics.ox.ac.uk/our-people/fendley) (Oxford University): high-energy and condensed-matter theory
*   [Paul Ginsparg](https://physics.cornell.edu/paul-ginsparg) (Cornell University): high-energy theory
*   [Daniel Gottesman](https://quics.umd.edu/people/daniel-gottesman) (University of Maryland): quantum physics
*   [Dong Lai](https://astro.cornell.edu/dong-lai) (Cornell University): astrophysics
*   [Michael Lawler](https://www.binghamton.edu/physics/research/profile.html?id=mlawler) (SUNY Binghamton): condensed-matter physics
*   [Brian Maple](http://mbmlab.ucsd.edu/people/maple.html) (University of California San Diego): condensed-matter experiment
*   [Bruno Nachtergaele](http://www.math.ucdavis.edu/~bxn/) (University of California Davis): mathematical physics
*   [Chris Reynolds](https://www.ast.cam.ac.uk/people/Christopher.Reynolds) (University of Cambridge): astrophysics
*   [Robert Seiringer](https://www.ist.ac.at/en/research/seiringer-group/) (Institute of Science and Technology Austria): mathematical physics


## Historical notes

- 2013-07 - Advisory committee re-organized.
- 2009-01 - We have implemented the long-awaited division of the **astro-ph** archive, see [astro-ph archive details](https://arxiv.org/archive/astro-ph). All new astro-ph submissions must be placed within a sub-category. It is intended that existing astro-ph articles will be machine classified according to this new scheme when enough training data has been collected from new submissions.
- 2008-12 - We have launched a the Quantitative Finance ([q-fin](../../new/q-fin_announce.md)) archive to house articles that have historically been submitted to **cond-mat** or **physics.soc-ph**.
- 2007-04 - The reformulation of the [arXiv identifiers](../../help/arxiv_identifier.md) in April 2007 means that the physics reorganization proposed in 2005 is no longer necessary. We have the flexibility to change category names, add new categories, and reclassify articles without the need to change the names of the existing physics archives.

Commit message:

Updates to governance, bylaws, principles and boards.
Changes by Stephanie Orphan

source/help/physics/index.md, after:

# About the Physics Archive

The physics archive was started in August 1991 and includes astro-ph, cond-mat, gr-qc, hep-ex, hep-lat, hep-ph, hep-th, math-ph, nucl-ex,nucl-th, physics and quant-ph.

You can browse articles and view categories at the individual archive pages:

- Astrophysics [astro-ph](https://arxiv.org/archive/astro-ph)
- Condensed Matter [cond-mat](https://arxiv.org/archive/cond-mat)
- General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology [gr-qc](https://arxiv.org/archive/gr-qc)
- High Energy Physics - Experiment [hep-ex](https://arxiv.org/archive/hep-ex)
- High Energy Physics - Lattice [hep-lat](https://arxiv.org/archive/hep-lat)
- High Energy Physics - Phenomenology [hep-ph](https://arxiv.org/archive/hep-ph)
- High Energy Physics - Theory [hep-th](https://arxiv.org/archive/hep-th)
- Mathematical Physics [math-ph](https://arxiv.org/archive/math-ph)
- Nonlinear Sciences [nlin](https://arxiv.org/archive/nlin)
- Nuclear Experiment [nucl-ex](https://arxiv.org/archive/nucl-ex)
- Nuclear Theory [nucl-th](https://arxiv.org/archive/nucl-th)
- Physics [physics](https://arxiv.org/archive/physics)
- Quantum Physics [quant-ph](https://arxiv.org/archive/quant-ph)

The [moderators for physics are listed here](https://arxiv.org/moderators#physics#physics).

<span id="AdvisoryCommittee"></span>
## The arXiv Physics Editorial Committee:

The advisory committee members serve as consultants to Cornell University and to the [arXiv Editorial Advisory Council](../../about/people/editorial_advisory_council.md). All arXiv policy decisions are ultimately made by Cornell University.

*   Chair: [Ralph Wijers](https://www.uva.nl/en/profile/w/i/r.a.m.j.wijers/r.a.m.j.wijers.html) (University of Amsterdam): astrophysics
*   [Jacques Distler](https://ph.utexas.edu/component/cobalt/item/18-physics/422-distler-jacques?Itemid=1264) (Texas): high-energy theory
*   Vice-Chair: [Paul Fendley](https://www.physics.ox.ac.uk/our-people/fendley) (Oxford University): high-energy and condensed-matter theory
*   [Paul Ginsparg](https://physics.cornell.edu/paul-ginsparg) (Cornell University): high-energy theory
*   [Daniel Gottesman](https://quics.umd.edu/people/daniel-gottesman) (University of Maryland): quantum physics
*   [Dong Lai](https://astro.cornell.edu/dong-lai) (Cornell University): astrophysics
*   [Michael Lawler](https://www.binghamton.edu/physics/research/profile.html?id=mlawler) (SUNY Binghamton): condensed-matter physics
*   [Brian Maple](http://mbmlab.ucsd.edu/people/maple.html) (University of California San Diego): condensed-matter experiment
*   [Bruno Nachtergaele](http://www.math.ucdavis.edu/~bxn/) (University of California Davis): mathematical physics
*   [Chris Reynolds](https://www.ast.cam.ac.uk/people/Christopher.Reynolds) (University of Cambridge): astrophysics
*   [Robert Seiringer](https://www.ist.ac.at/en/research/seiringer-group/) (Institute of Science and Technology Austria): mathematical physics


## Historical notes
- 2023-07: new arXiv bylaws adopted, by which Physics Advisory Committee renamed Physics Editorial Committee
- 2013-07 - Advisory committee re-organized.
- 2009-01 - We have implemented the long-awaited division of the **astro-ph** archive, see [astro-ph archive details](https://arxiv.org/archive/astro-ph). All new astro-ph submissions must be placed within a sub-category. It is intended that existing astro-ph articles will be machine classified according to this new scheme when enough training data has been collected from new submissions.
- 2008-12 - We have launched a the Quantitative Finance ([q-fin](../../new/q-fin_announce.md)) archive to house articles that have historically been submitted to **cond-mat** or **physics.soc-ph**.
- 2007-04 - The reformulation of the [arXiv identifiers](../../help/arxiv_identifier.md) in April 2007 means that the physics reorganization proposed in 2005 is no longer necessary. We have the flexibility to change category names, add new categories, and reclassify articles without the need to change the names of the existing physics archives.
