help/availability.md, before:

Availability of submissions
<<<<<<< HEAD
===========================
=======
==================================================
>>>>>>> be30559e08ffc4c96964d3c4c2771a792f94b6e3

Submissions to arXiv are typically made public Sunday through
Thursday, with no announcements Friday or Saturday. Check the [current
time](https://arxiv.org/localtime) at the arXiv main site, with the
amount of time remaining before the deadline. Submissions are made public as part of the scheduled announcement process. This includes new submissions as well as [replacements](/help/replace), [withdrawal notices](/help/withdraw), [cross listings](/help/cross) and [journal reference](/help/jref). Journal reference submissions do not appear in the mailings, but are still processed at that time. 

<a href="#id-before"></a>
A note about arXiv-id assignments
---------------------------------

The final [arXiv identifier](arxiv_identifier) cannot be assigned until the paper is announced, so please do not ask for it ahead of announcement. It is not possible to make exceptions, nor accelerate the announcement schedule regardless of your circumstance. 

**Note:** The arXiv identifier cannot be back-dated, so identifiers will be assigned in the month of first announcement. It may be the case that a submission appears in a different identifier month than its original submission date due to various factors.

Announcement Schedule
---------------------

| Submissions received between<br />(all times Eastern US) | Will be announced<br />(all times Eastern US) | Mailed to subscribers |
|:---:|:---:|:---:|
| Monday 14:00 &ndash; Tuesday 14:00 | Tuesday 20:00 | Tuesday night / Wednesday morning |
| Tuesday 14:00 &ndash; Wednesday 14:00 | Wednesday 20:00 | Wednesday night / Thursday morning | 
| Wednesday 14:00 &ndash; Thursday 14:00 | Thursday 20:00 | Thursday night / Friday morning |
| Thursday 14:00 &ndash; Friday 14:00 | Sunday 20:00 | Sunday night / Monday morning |
| Friday 14:00 &ndash; Monday 14:00 | Monday 20:00 | Monday night / Tuesday morning |

<a name="holiday"></a>
Special availability for holidays
---------------------------------

There are no scheduled holidays at this time. Keep an eye on this space for the announcement of any deferred mailing.

Commit message:

changed wording to not indicate we'll update this page, but provided links to the locations we would make this information public

help/availability.md, after:

Availability of submissions
<<<<<<< HEAD
===========================
=======
==================================================
>>>>>>> be30559e08ffc4c96964d3c4c2771a792f94b6e3

Submissions to arXiv are typically made public Sunday through
Thursday, with no announcements Friday or Saturday. Check the [current
time](https://arxiv.org/localtime) at the arXiv main site, with the
amount of time remaining before the deadline. Submissions are made public as part of the scheduled announcement process. This includes new submissions as well as [replacements](/help/replace), [withdrawal notices](/help/withdraw), [cross listings](/help/cross) and [journal reference](/help/jref). Journal reference submissions do not appear in the mailings, but are still processed at that time. 

<a href="#id-before"></a>
A note about arXiv-id assignments
---------------------------------

The final [arXiv identifier](arxiv_identifier) cannot be assigned until the paper is announced, so please do not ask for it ahead of announcement. It is not possible to make exceptions, nor accelerate the announcement schedule regardless of your circumstance. 

**Note:** The arXiv identifier cannot be back-dated, so identifiers will be assigned in the month of first announcement. It may be the case that a submission appears in a different identifier month than its original submission date due to various factors.

Announcement Schedule
---------------------

| Submissions received between<br />(all times Eastern US) | Will be announced<br />(all times Eastern US) | Mailed to subscribers |
|:---:|:---:|:---:|
| Monday 14:00 &ndash; Tuesday 14:00 | Tuesday 20:00 | Tuesday night / Wednesday morning |
| Tuesday 14:00 &ndash; Wednesday 14:00 | Wednesday 20:00 | Wednesday night / Thursday morning | 
| Wednesday 14:00 &ndash; Thursday 14:00 | Thursday 20:00 | Thursday night / Friday morning |
| Thursday 14:00 &ndash; Friday 14:00 | Sunday 20:00 | Sunday night / Monday morning |
| Friday 14:00 &ndash; Monday 14:00 | Monday 20:00 | Monday night / Tuesday morning |

<a name="holiday"></a>
On Deferred Mailings
--------------------

On the occasion that arXiv defers a mailing (either for locally celebrated holidays such as Thanksgiving or for ad hoc reasons), this information may be found on the [arXiv status](https://status.arxiv.org), or on the [arXiv blog](https://blog.arxiv.org).
