help/contact.md, before:

Contacting arXiv
===============================

## Technical queries

If you have questions about paper submission, accounts, and use of arXiv, review [help](/help) and [FAQ](/help/faq). If you require further assistance, contact us at help@arxiv.org. 

Note that arXiv help and moderation email addresses are monitored between 0900-1700 EST/EDT, Monday through Friday, subject to administrator availability and the holiday schedule.

**To avoid a long delay in receiving a response:** 

-   Send a precise email including all relevant details (especially submission or paper ids, rejection ids, URLs, etc.).
-   If you receive an automated response to your email, please read all instructions carefully.
    -   If there is no other identifying information in your message
        (e.g., paper id or rejection id), you may need to address your
        email with **"Dear arXiv,"** to bypass our SPAM filter.

## Moderation queries

If you have questions about the status of your submission, contact us at moderation@arxiv.org.
 
-   Send a precise email, including all relevant details (especially paper ids, former correspondence, submission summaries, etc.)
-   If you receive an automated response to your email, please read all instructions carefully.
    -   If there is no other identifying information in your message
        (e.g., paper id or rejection id), you may need to address your
        email with **"Dear arXiv-moderation,"** to bypass our SPAM
        filter.
-   Please be *patient*, as moderation appeals are complicated and may
    take some time.

## Membership and Giving

Information about institutional membership or contributions to arXiv can be found at [Membership & Giving](/about/give), or contact membership@arxiv.org.

## Copyright infringement

To contact Cornell University's designated agent for alleged copyright
infringement, in accordance with the Digital Millennium Copyright Act,
see [Copyright
Infringements](http://www.cornell.edu/copyright-infringement.cfm).

Commit message:

updated contact and authority with first pass at pointers for authorship disputes

help/contact.md, after:

Contacting arXiv
===============================

## Technical queries

If you have questions about paper submission, accounts, and use of arXiv, review [help](/help) and [FAQ](/help/faq). If you require further assistance, contact us at help@arxiv.org. 

Note that arXiv help and moderation email addresses are monitored between 0900-1700 EST/EDT, Monday through Friday, subject to administrator availability and the holiday schedule.

**To avoid a long delay in receiving a response:** 

-   Send a precise email including all relevant details (especially submission or paper ids, rejection ids, URLs, etc.).
-   If you receive an automated response to your email, please read all instructions carefully.
    -   If there is no other identifying information in your message
        (e.g., paper id or rejection id), you may need to address your
        email with **"Dear arXiv,"** to bypass our SPAM filter.

## Moderation queries

If you have questions about the status of your submission, contact us at moderation@arxiv.org.
 
-   Send a precise email, including all relevant details (especially paper ids, former correspondence, submission summaries, etc.)
-   If you receive an automated response to your email, please read all instructions carefully.
    -   If there is no other identifying information in your message
        (e.g., paper id or rejection id), you may need to address your
        email with **"Dear arXiv-moderation,"** to bypass our SPAM
        filter.
-   Please be *patient*, as moderation appeals are complicated and may
    take some time.

## Membership and Giving

Information about institutional membership or contributions to arXiv can be found at [Membership & Giving](/about/give), or contact membership@arxiv.org.

## Copyright infringement

To contact Cornell University's designated agent for alleged copyright
infringement, in accordance with the Digital Millennium Copyright Act,
see [Copyright
Infringements](http://www.cornell.edu/copyright-infringement.cfm). 

<span id="figures"></span>
**Note:** For queries regarding figure reuse for your manuscript, please contact the submitter or copyright holder directly.

## Authorship Disputes

arXiv will not adjudicate [authorship disputes](/help/authority#coauthor) within a collaboration of authors. If you believe that a particular submission violates arXiv's [code of conduct](policies/code_of_conduct) please contact help@arxiv.org with additional information and a complete explanation.
