help/index.md, before:

---
slug: Help
---

# arXiv Help Contents

## General Information
- [About arXiv](/about)
- [Policies](policies)
- [arXiv Help Frequently Asked Questions](faq/index)

## Searching and Browsing
- [Find an Article](find)
- [Viewing Articles](view)
- [Configuring Your Browser for Downloads](config_browser)
- [Cookie Configuration](../cookies)
- [Utilities (tar, gzip, etc.)](utilities)
- [Gzipped files](gzip)
- [Web Accessibility Assistance](web_accessibility)

## User Accounts
- [Register a User Account](registerhelp)
- [The Endorsement System](endorsement)
- [Protecting your Privacy](email-protection)
- [Authority Records](authority)
- [The User-ID/Password System](passwords)
- [Subscribe to E-Mail Listings](subscribe)

## Submission and Revision
- [Submit an Article](submit)
- [Submission schedule and cutoff time](availability)
- [Submission terms and agreement](policies/submission_agreement)
- [Instructions for submission](policies/instructions_for_submission)
- [Replace an Article](replace)
- [Withdraw an Article](withdraw)
- [Add a Journal Reference, DOI or Report Number to an Article](jref)
- [Crosslist an Article](cross)
- [The Moderation System](moderation)
- [Oversized Submissions](sizes)
- [Text Overlap Detection](overlap)

## Miscellaneous
- [Understanding the arXiv Identifier](arxiv_identifier)
- [Understanding the ORCID iD](orcid)
- [Institutional Repository (IR) Interoperability](ir)
- [Bulk data access](bulk_data)
- [API access](api) and [API User Manual](api/user-manual)
- [DOI and journal reference updates to arXiv from publishers](bib_feed)
- [ScienceWISE annotation and bookmarking](sciencewise)
- [Usage statistics](stats)
- [Obsolete Macros](macro_list)
- [MathJax](mathjax)
- [SSL Support in arXiv](ssl)

If you could not find an answer to your question, please [contact our User Support team](contact#contacting-arxiv).

Commit message:

adds breadcrumbs to help index for license and reuse

help/index.md, after:

---
slug: Help
---

# arXiv Help Contents

## General Information
- [About arXiv](/about)
- [Policies](policies)
- [arXiv Help Frequently Asked Questions](faq/index)
- [Licenses of content](license)
- [Reuse of content from arXiv](license/reuse)

## Searching and Browsing
- [Find an Article](find)
- [Viewing Articles](view)
- [Configuring Your Browser for Downloads](config_browser)
- [Cookie Configuration](../cookies)
- [Utilities (tar, gzip, etc.)](utilities)
- [Gzipped files](gzip)
- [Web Accessibility Assistance](web_accessibility)

## User Accounts
- [Register a User Account](registerhelp)
- [The Endorsement System](endorsement)
- [Protecting your Privacy](email-protection)
- [Authority Records](authority)
- [The User-ID/Password System](passwords)
- [Subscribe to E-Mail Listings](subscribe)

## Submission and Revision
- [Submit an Article](submit)
- [Submission schedule and cutoff time](availability)
- [Submission terms and agreement](policies/submission_agreement)
- [Instructions for submission](policies/instructions_for_submission)
- [Replace an Article](replace)
- [Withdraw an Article](withdraw)
- [Add a Journal Reference, DOI or Report Number to an Article](jref)
- [Crosslist an Article](cross)
- [The Moderation System](moderation)
- [Oversized Submissions](sizes)
- [Text Overlap Detection](overlap)

## Miscellaneous
- [Understanding the arXiv Identifier](arxiv_identifier)
- [Understanding the ORCID iD](orcid)
- [Institutional Repository (IR) Interoperability](ir)
- [Bulk data access](bulk_data)
- [API access](api) and [API User Manual](api/user-manual)
- [DOI and journal reference updates to arXiv from publishers](bib_feed)
- [ScienceWISE annotation and bookmarking](sciencewise)
- [Usage statistics](stats)
- [Obsolete Macros](macro_list)
- [MathJax](mathjax)
- [SSL Support in arXiv](ssl)

If you could not find an answer to your question, please [contact our User Support team](contact#contacting-arxiv).
