help/moderation.md, before:

# arXiv moderation

arXiv is a forum for professional members of the scientific community, providing rapid distribution of new research and maintaining a permanent collection of scientific work. As part of the service all submissions are subject to moderation. For more general information about the moderation process please [see our 2019 blog post](http://blog.arxiv.org/2019/08/29/our-moderation-process/).

## Why does arXiv moderate submissions?

arXiv is an openly accessible, moderated repository for scholarly papers in specific scientific disciplines. Material submitted to arXiv is expected to be of interest, relevance, and value to those disciplines. arXiv reserves the right to decline or reclassify any submission.

## What policies guide moderation before public announcement?

This section describes the moderation considerations from after a user submits a work and before the work is announced. As submissions go through the arXiv moderation process they may be declined or reclassified.

Reclassification by our moderators helps make sure that submissions are posted to the most appropriate archive. Cross-lists may be added to other related archives, or they may be removed by moderators when the classification is deemed inappropriate. A submission that is cross-listed to a category will still be announced in the mailings to that category.

What follows are some example arXiv policies that could lead to a submission being declined. This is *not* an exhaustive list, and some works that have been published or accepted by a journal may still be declined at the discretion of arXiv moderators and/or arXiv administration.

### Unrefereeable content

arXiv only accepts submissions in the form of an article that would be refereeable by a conventional publication venue. Papers that do not contain original or substantive research, including undergraduate research, course projects, and research proposals, news, or information about political causes (even those with potential special interest to the academic community) may be declined. Papers that contain inflammatory or fictitious content, papers that use highly dramatic and misrepresentative titles/abstracts/introductions, or papers in need of significant review and revision may be declined.

### Inappropriate format

Abstract-only submissions, presentations, book announcements, book reviews, submissions without references, calls for papers, or articles containing advertisements may be rejected. We do not accept submissions with line numbers or submissions with watermarks. Germaine "Comment on" and "Reply to" articles must still conform to refereeable standards (for example, as if they were a "letter to the editor"). arXiv may limit excessive back and forth to a single "reply to" and "comment on" per original paper, updates to the discourse are to be made through [replacements](/help/replace). 

### Inappropriate topic

While arXiv serves a variety of scientific communities, not all subjects are currently covered. Submissions that do not fit well into our current classification scheme may be declined.

### Duplicated content

If moderators notice that a user has made many similar submissions in a short amount of time, or that a new submission appears to be a revision of a recent submission, then we may request that the submissions be consolidated. This helps ensure that arXiv is as useful as possible for all of the various communities posting and reading articles, and it can often help the author present a more unified body of research.

### Rights to submit material

Submissions to arXiv must be the author’s original work, and users must have the legal authority to grant the [selected license](/help/license) Users must ensure the submission does not, to the best of their knowledge, infringe upon anyone's copyright. Users should not submit articles containing verbatim comments by referees, plagiarized content, or other works barred by third party copyright. 

### Excessive submission rate

Articles submitted to arXiv must be of refereeable quality, and there is a practical limit to the rate at which appropriate, independent submissions can be produced by any one person. We may request that a particular author limit their submission rate if this author has a history of many submissions to inappropriate areas or of doubtful refereeability. 
If an author has a back catalog of work to submit to arXiv we ask that they submit no more than three papers per day.

## What policies guide moderation after public announcement?

Once a paper is announced it becomes part of the permanent scholarly record. While arXiv reserves the right to remove any content, arXiv will only consider requests for removal if the submitter did not have the legal right to [agree to the license](/help/license).

In cases where papers that are posted are found to violate arXiv policy we may [withdraw the paper](/help/withdraw). arXiv may also indicate the concern in the Comments metadata.

arXiv may reclassify already announced papers if the moderators determine there is a more appropriate categorization.


<span id="appeal"></span>

## Can I appeal a moderation decision?

It is possible to appeal the classification of an announced article, or the decision to decline a submission. In some cases, we may require that a paper be accepted for publication in a conventional journal before an appeal is considered.

If you disagree with a moderation decision, you may submit an appeal. Please carefully follow the directions below.

- Appeals should be submitted through our [user support portal](https://arxiv.org/support/moderation_help). If you cannot access the portal you can contact us by email at moderation@arxiv.org.
- In your appeal message please include all relevant details, including paper IDs, former correspondence, submission summaries, etc.
- You will get an response from arXiv User Support team when your appeal has been sent to our appellate moderators for consideration.

- Please be patient, as moderation appeals are complicated and take some time.
- When a decision is made by the appellate moderators you will receive a follow up message from arXiv User Support.
- Our moderators are not referees and do not provide detailed feedback on submissions. User Support staff cannot provide detailed feedback regarding submissions deemed inappropriate and will not enter into extended discussion regarding submissions.


The appeals process allows moderators additional time to reconsider a submission, but repeated appeals with no additional information cannot be considered. If you send an appeal and the moderators reach the same decision as they did initially, no further appeal should be requested. Extreme cases may be addressed to the appropriate advisory committee chair only: [physics](/help/physics/#AdvisoryCommittee);
[mathematics](/help/math/#AdvisoryCommittee); 
[computer science (CoRR)](/corr); 
[quantitative biology](/help/q-bio/#AdvisoryCommittee); 
[quantitative finance](/help/q-fin/#AdvisoryCommittee);
[statistics](/help/statistics/#AdvisoryCommittee);
[electrical engineering and systems science](/help/eess/#AdvisoryCommittee); or [economics](/help/econ/#AdvisoryCommittee) .

## Who are arXiv moderators?

arXiv moderators are volunteers who are experts in their fields and in the types of submissions that are appropriate for their subject classifications. They evaluate based on the content of the submission and the policies of arXiv. Moderators consider the submissions to arXiv as privileged information, as they would with a paper being refereed for a journal.

[arXiv moderators](/moderators) are approved by their discipline-level [advisory committees](/about/people/scientific_ad_board#advisory_committees) and by arXiv staff.

Although the moderators may be publicly acknowledged, it is inappropriate to contact any moderator directly regarding your submission. All communication about moderation decisions should be addressed to moderation@arxiv.org or through our [user support portal](https://arxiv-org.atlassian.net/servicedesk/customer/portal/2). In extreme cases, the appropriate advisory committee chair may be contacted. Moderators are encouraged not to reply to personal correspondence regarding arXiv submissions.

Commit message:

added some headings, changed unrefereeable -> unacceptable

help/moderation.md, after:

# arXiv moderation

arXiv is a forum for professional members of the scientific community, providing rapid distribution of new research and maintaining a permanent collection of scientific work. As part of the service all submissions are subject to moderation. For more general information about the moderation process please [see our 2019 blog post](http://blog.arxiv.org/2019/08/29/our-moderation-process/).

## Why does arXiv moderate submissions?

arXiv is an openly accessible, moderated repository for scholarly papers in specific scientific disciplines. Material submitted to arXiv is expected to be of interest, relevance, and value to those disciplines. arXiv reserves the right to decline or reclassify any submission.

## What policies guide moderation before public announcement?

This section describes the moderation considerations from after a user submits a work and before the work is announced. As submissions go through the arXiv moderation process they may be declined or reclassified.

Reclassification by our moderators helps make sure that submissions are posted to the most appropriate archive. Cross-lists may be added to other related archives, or they may be removed by moderators when the classification is deemed inappropriate. A submission that is cross-listed to a category will still be announced in the mailings to that category.

## What guides moderation decisions regarding content? 

arXiv moderators expect submissions to be of scholarly archival interest to the communities they represent. Submitted research is expected to be novel, unique, of interest, and potentially of significant impact. 

## Does arXiv decline or reject submissions? 

It is the case that some percentage of works submitted to arXiv may not be accepted. What follows are some example arXiv policies that could lead to a submission being declined. This is *not* an exhaustive list, and some works that have been published or accepted by a journal may still be declined at the discretion of arXiv moderators and/or arXiv administration. 

### Unacceptable content

arXiv only accepts submissions in the form of an article that would be refereeable by a conventional publication venue. Papers that do not contain original or substantive research, including undergraduate research, course projects, and research proposals, news, or information about political causes (even those with potential special interest to the academic community) may be declined. Papers that contain inflammatory or fictitious content, papers that use highly dramatic and misrepresentative titles/abstracts/introductions, or papers in need of significant review and revision may be declined.

### Inappropriate format

Abstract-only submissions, presentations, book announcements, book reviews, submissions without references, calls for papers, or articles containing advertisements may be rejected. We do not accept submissions with line numbers or submissions with watermarks. Germaine "Comment on" and "Reply to" articles must still conform to refereeable standards (for example, as if they were a "letter to the editor"). arXiv may limit excessive back and forth to a single "reply to" and "comment on" per original paper, updates to the discourse are to be made through [replacements](/help/replace). 

### Inappropriate topic

While arXiv serves a variety of scientific communities, not all subjects are currently covered. Submissions that do not fit well into our current classification scheme may be declined.

### Duplicated content

If moderators notice that a user has made many similar submissions in a short amount of time, or that a new submission appears to be a revision of a recent submission, then we may request that the submissions be consolidated. This helps ensure that arXiv is as useful as possible for all of the various communities posting and reading articles, and it can often help the author present a more unified body of research.

### Rights to submit material

Submissions to arXiv must be the author’s original work, and users must have the legal authority to grant the [selected license](/help/license) Users must ensure the submission does not, to the best of their knowledge, infringe upon anyone's copyright. Users should not submit articles containing verbatim comments by referees, plagiarized content, or other works barred by third party copyright. 

### Excessive submission rate

Articles submitted to arXiv must be of refereeable quality, and there is a practical limit to the rate at which appropriate, independent submissions can be produced by any one person. We may request that a particular author limit their submission rate if this author has a history of many submissions to inappropriate areas or of doubtful refereeability. 
If an author has a back catalog of work to submit to arXiv we ask that they submit no more than three papers per day.

## What policies guide moderation after public announcement?

Once a paper is announced it becomes part of the permanent scholarly record. While arXiv reserves the right to remove any content, arXiv will only consider requests for removal if the submitter did not have the legal right to [agree to the license](/help/license).

In cases where papers that are posted are found to violate arXiv policy we may [withdraw the paper](/help/withdraw). arXiv may also indicate the concern in the Comments metadata.

arXiv may reclassify already announced papers if the moderators determine there is a more appropriate categorization.


<span id="appeal"></span>

## Can I appeal a moderation decision?

It is possible to appeal the classification of an announced article, or the decision to decline a submission. In some cases, we may require that a paper be accepted for publication in a conventional journal before an appeal is considered.

If you disagree with a moderation decision, you may submit an appeal. Please carefully follow the directions below.

- Appeals should be submitted through our [user support portal](https://arxiv.org/support/moderation_help). If you cannot access the portal you can contact us by email at moderation@arxiv.org.
- In your appeal message please include all relevant details, including paper IDs, former correspondence, submission summaries, etc.
- You will get an response from arXiv User Support team when your appeal has been sent to our appellate moderators for consideration.

- Please be patient, as moderation appeals are complicated and take some time.
- When a decision is made by the appellate moderators you will receive a follow up message from arXiv User Support.
- Our moderators are not referees and do not provide detailed feedback on submissions. User Support staff cannot provide detailed feedback regarding submissions deemed inappropriate and will not enter into extended discussion regarding submissions.


The appeals process allows moderators additional time to reconsider a submission, but repeated appeals with no additional information cannot be considered. If you send an appeal and the moderators reach the same decision as they did initially, no further appeal should be requested. Extreme cases may be addressed to the appropriate advisory committee chair only: [physics](/help/physics/#AdvisoryCommittee);
[mathematics](/help/math/#AdvisoryCommittee); 
[computer science (CoRR)](/corr); 
[quantitative biology](/help/q-bio/#AdvisoryCommittee); 
[quantitative finance](/help/q-fin/#AdvisoryCommittee);
[statistics](/help/statistics/#AdvisoryCommittee);
[electrical engineering and systems science](/help/eess/#AdvisoryCommittee); or [economics](/help/econ/#AdvisoryCommittee) .

## Who are arXiv moderators?

arXiv moderators are volunteers who are experts in their fields and in the types of submissions that are appropriate for their subject classifications. They evaluate based on the content of the submission and the policies of arXiv. Moderators consider the submissions to arXiv as privileged information, as they would with a paper being refereed for a journal.

[arXiv moderators](/moderators) are approved by their discipline-level [advisory committees](/about/people/scientific_ad_board#advisory_committees) and by arXiv staff.

Although the moderators may be publicly acknowledged, it is inappropriate to contact any moderator directly regarding your submission. All communication about moderation decisions should be addressed to moderation@arxiv.org or through our [user support portal](https://arxiv-org.atlassian.net/servicedesk/customer/portal/2). In extreme cases, the appropriate advisory committee chair may be contacted. Moderators are encouraged not to reply to personal correspondence regarding arXiv submissions.
