help/submit_pdf.md, before:

Submission of PDF
=================

If you are submitting a PDF document, please make sure to follow these
guidelines:

-   Submit one PDF file including all text and figures. PDF can
    efficiently include photographs imported in JPEG format. We do not
    permit submissions that include multiple PDF files, or PDF files in
    combination with other file types.
-   You must ensure that all non-standard fonts are included and that
    outline (TrueType/Type1) rather than bitmap (Type3) fonts are used.
    In Adobe Distiller and many other products this is referred to as
    *compatibility mode* and will ensure that the PDF document is as
    portable as possible.
-   Note: a PDF file created from a TeX/LaTeX file will be rejected.
    There are [good reasons](/help/faq/whytex) why arXiv insists on
    TeX/LaTeX source if it is available. arXiv produces PDF
    automatically from all TeX submitted source. For information on
    viewing the PDF provided by arXiv, see our [PDF browsing
    help](/help/pdf).

While PDF can be very useful, it has some limitations. Including large figures in PDF can hamper the
display of the document so that it is unusable. Authors should keep in
mind that not everyone will have a high-end machine, and they should
compose their documents accordingly with efficient figures.

Creating PDF
------------

Many authoring applications can directly create or export as PDF. Freely
available examples include [OpenOffice.org](http://www.openoffice.org/)
Writer or [Google Docs](http://docs.google.com).

Other authoring applications may require either a converter add-in or
post-processing to produce PDF. If you have a copy of Adobe Distiller
installed you should use that to create PDF. Otherwise, you might try
one of these free conversion utilities:

-   [PDF Online](http://www.pdfonline.com/) — web service to convert
    Word and RTF to PDF. Size limit 2MB.
-   [PDFCreator](http://www.pdfforge.org/products/pdfcreator) — a
    downloadable PDF print addon for Windows.
-   [PrimoPDF](http://primopdf.com) — downloadable Windows printer
    driver that writes output to a PDF file. (There is also a PrimoPDF
    online service which accepts Word, RTF, ODF and other formats but
    some font substitutions may occur).
-   [CIB PDF
    brewer](http://www.cib.de/english/products/pdf/cibpdfplugin_freeware.htm)
    is a downloadable Windows printer driver that writes output to a PDF
    file. The free version has limited font support. Notably,
    `MT  Extra` is not supported.

(Please contact us if this information is out of date or if you can
suggest other free tools that are better.)

<span id="readable"></span>PDF must be machine readable 
-------------------------------------------------------

arXiv relies on our submitters to provide a PDF which is *machine readable*
(i.e. that the PDF is not encrypted, bitmapped, or otherwise altered to prevent
text extraction), which facilitates **discovery and access**. 
This means that we can build tools around your work to provide
content discovery (e.g. full text search), and readers can still
understand its contents using tools such as screen readers. 

arXiv does not accept bitmapped or scanned PDF, even in the case of software provided OCR
(optical character recognition), because OCR software may not be sufficiently accurate for our 
archival purposes. 

<span id="copyright"></span>Copyright within PDF
------------------------------------------------

Copyright statements of the author are permitted within the pdf, however
submissions containing journal copyright will be rejected. Copyright
statements which prohibit or impair arXiv's [redistribution
license](/help/license) will also be rejected. If explicit permission is
given for open access redistribution, these are permissible.

Note on IEEE submissions. Please note arXiv will currently take the
'Accepted' IEEE version but not the 'Published' IEEE version. For more
information on IEEE policies please see:

-   [IEEE
    FAQ](https://www.ieee.org/content/dam/ieee-org/ieee/web/org/pubs/author_version_faq.pdf)
-   [IEEE Rights
    Policy](http://www.ieee.org/publications_standards/publications/rights/rights_policies.html)
-   [IEEE Third Party
    Servers](http://www.ieee.org/publications_standards/publications/rights/thirdpartyservers.html#sect2)

Commit message:

added brief sentence regarding accessibility

help/submit_pdf.md, after:

Submission of PDF
=================

If you are submitting a PDF document, please make sure to follow these
guidelines:

-   Submit one PDF file including all text and figures. PDF can
    efficiently include photographs imported in JPEG format. We do not
    permit submissions that include multiple PDF files, or PDF files in
    combination with other file types.
-   You must ensure that all non-standard fonts are included and that
    outline (TrueType/Type1) rather than bitmap (Type3) fonts are used.
    In Adobe Distiller and many other products this is referred to as
    *compatibility mode* and will ensure that the PDF document is as
    portable as possible.
-   Note: a PDF file created from a TeX/LaTeX file will be rejected.
    There are [good reasons](/help/faq/whytex) why arXiv insists on
    TeX/LaTeX source if it is available. arXiv produces PDF
    automatically from all TeX submitted source. For information on
    viewing the PDF provided by arXiv, see our [PDF browsing
    help](/help/pdf).

While PDF can be very useful, it has some limitations. Including large figures in PDF can hamper the
display of the document so that it is unusable. Authors should keep in
mind that not everyone will have a high-end machine, and they should
compose their documents accordingly with efficient figures.

Creating PDF
------------

Many authoring applications can directly create or export as PDF. Freely
available examples include [OpenOffice.org](http://www.openoffice.org/)
Writer or [Google Docs](http://docs.google.com).

Other authoring applications may require either a converter add-in or
post-processing to produce PDF. If you have a copy of Adobe Distiller
installed you should use that to create PDF. Otherwise, you might try
one of these free conversion utilities:

-   [PDF Online](http://www.pdfonline.com/) — web service to convert
    Word and RTF to PDF. Size limit 2MB.
-   [PDFCreator](http://www.pdfforge.org/products/pdfcreator) — a
    downloadable PDF print addon for Windows.
-   [PrimoPDF](http://primopdf.com) — downloadable Windows printer
    driver that writes output to a PDF file. (There is also a PrimoPDF
    online service which accepts Word, RTF, ODF and other formats but
    some font substitutions may occur).
-   [CIB PDF
    brewer](http://www.cib.de/english/products/pdf/cibpdfplugin_freeware.htm)
    is a downloadable Windows printer driver that writes output to a PDF
    file. The free version has limited font support. Notably,
    `MT  Extra` is not supported.

(Please contact us if this information is out of date or if you can
suggest other free tools that are better.)

<span id="readable"></span>PDF must be machine readable 
-------------------------------------------------------

arXiv relies on our submitters to provide a PDF which is *machine readable*
(i.e. that the PDF is not encrypted, bitmapped, or otherwise altered to prevent
text extraction), which facilitates **discovery and access**. 
This means that we can build tools around your work to provide
content discovery (e.g. full text search), and readers can still
understand its contents using tools such as screen readers. 

arXiv does not accept bitmapped or scanned PDF, even in the case of software provided OCR
(optical character recognition), because OCR software may not be sufficiently accurate for our 
archival purposes, nor are they necessarily compliant for screen readers and other accessibility 
requirements. 

<span id="copyright"></span>Copyright within PDF
------------------------------------------------

Copyright statements of the author are permitted within the pdf, however
submissions containing journal copyright will be rejected. Copyright
statements which prohibit or impair arXiv's [redistribution
license](/help/license) will also be rejected. If explicit permission is
given for open access redistribution, these are permissible.

Note on IEEE submissions. Please note arXiv will currently take the
'Accepted' IEEE version but not the 'Published' IEEE version. For more
information on IEEE policies please see:

-   [IEEE
    FAQ](https://www.ieee.org/content/dam/ieee-org/ieee/web/org/pubs/author_version_faq.pdf)
-   [IEEE Rights
    Policy](http://www.ieee.org/publications_standards/publications/rights/rights_policies.html)
-   [IEEE Third Party
    Servers](http://www.ieee.org/publications_standards/publications/rights/thirdpartyservers.html#sect2)
