source/help/policies/content-types.md, before:

# Policies for specific content types

The standards for [moderation and scholarly interest](/help/moderation/index.html) are the basis for
acceptance (or not) of submissions. 
In general, the guidelines below represent what types of content typically are and are not accepted.

  
## Content types that are typically NOT accepted include

- Abstract-only submissions
- Book announcements
- Book reviews
- Calls for papers
- Course projects
- Information about political causes (even those with potential special interest to the academic community)
- News items or opinion pieces
- Patent applications
- Posters
- Presentation slides
- Proposals for future research
- Supplemental material that is not embedded in the full article
- Wokshop or conference summaries
- Undergraduate or high school research
- Very short work

## Content types that typically are accepted include

- [Articles](#Articles)
- [Theses](#Theses)
- [Conference proceedings](/help/submit_index.html)
- [Books or book chapters](#Books)
- [Lecture notes](#Lecture%20notes)
- [Translations](/help/translations.html)
- [Comments and Reply to Comments](#Comments)

## Articles

Research articles are the primary content type submitted to arXiv. Articles should be complete final drafts.

## Theses

A thesis, like all other content types, should have novel results and be of plausible interest to professional researchers. Undergraduate or Master's level researchers should consult their advisor before submitting to arXiv.
  
## Conference proceedings

Please refer to [Submission of indexes for conference proceedings](/help/submit_index.html)


<a name="Books"></a>

## Books

Most submissions to arXiv are research articles, but we do accept other content types, including books and book chapters. Similar to article submissions, books and book chapters should be self-contained research with novel results or current reviews that are of interest to professional researchers in the field. Textbooks and books that are not research are not typically accepted. There are some exceptions though.

### Books as complete works

Books are acceptable as complete manuscripts as long as they are of interest. This format is preferred if the individual chapters are all by the same author(s).

### Individual book chapters

Individual book chapters may be submitted and will be moderated by the same standards as research articles.

### Book Front matter/Introductions/Appendices

An Introduction chapter or Appendix section would not typically be accepted on its own as they are not self-contained or of interest. In order to allow for a complete book to be posted to arXiv, where the chapters are submitted individually, we will allow a submission for the “non-research” sections of the book when:
The front matter, introductory chapters, appendices, etc. are combined into a submission that includes links to the individual chapters that are on arXiv. 


## Lecture Notes

Lecture notes, like all other content types, should have novel results and be of plausible interest to professional researchers. In some fields lecture notes are developed around novel research and written in a format similar to research articles that may be acceptable to submit to arXiv. 

Lecture notes that are pedagogical or that cover standard material should not be submitted.

## Translations

Please refer to the page on [Translations](/help/translations.html)

<a name="Comments"></a>

## Comments and Replies to Comments

arXiv encourages dialogue and debate about scientific matters. Normally this occurs via a series of papers that build on or critically examine each other. These are moderated each individually as standalone papers. Sometimes, a remark on or note about another paper that is not a full standalone paper is of sufficient interest to arXiv readers. These can be put on arXiv as so-called "comments-on" papers. All normal moderation criteria apply to these, except that they need not be complete standalone papers.

Requirements for Comments and Replies:

- “Comments-on” papers must include the arXiv-ID of the original paper in the Title and/or Comments metadata fields (e.g., “comment(s) on arXiv:YYMM.NNNNN").
- When a “comments-on” paper is posted on arXiv, a reply from the authors of the original paper is permitted (subject to the same moderation criteria as comments). Reply submissions should include the arXiv-ID of the “comments-on” paper to which they respond in the Title and/or Comments metadata fields (e.g., “reply to arXiv: YYMM.NNNNN”).
- In rare cases where the original paper is not on arXiv, the DOI of the original paper should be used to identify it in the metadata in place of an arXiv-ID.
- A chain of continued responses and counterresponses is allowed only as new versions of the initial Comment and Reply; these will not be accepted as new papers with new arXiv-IDs. A given author or co-author may submit only one Comment on a particular paper. Any subsequent issues the author wishes to raise must be done through version updates of the original Comment.

  * A replacement can be used two ways to create a new version under the same arXiv-ID:
    
    * Submit the new work as a replacement and include a note to readers in the metadata Comments field explaining the major differences in between versions. References to versions in the form of arXiv:YYMM.NNNNNvX that are included in the Comments metadata will automatically link to those versions. If you need help correcting the metadata Comments field after posting let [our user support team know](http://arxiv.org/support/general_help).
    * Combine the new work and previous versions into a single document. If the authorship has changed across versions, include a cover page that clearly indicates to readers which authors were involved in each section of the work. In this case, all authors can be included in the metadata Author field for the most recent version.

Commit message:

Update "Comments and Replies"
Adding bullet point clarifying our policy on comments on papers not on arXiv (using some wording supplied by Ralph) + fixing an unrelated typo earlier on the content types page ("wokshop" -> "workshop")

source/help/policies/content-types.md, after:

# Policies for specific content types

The standards for [moderation and scholarly interest](/help/moderation/index.html) are the basis for
acceptance (or not) of submissions. 
In general, the guidelines below represent what types of content typically are and are not accepted.

  
## Content types that are typically NOT accepted include

- Abstract-only submissions
- Book announcements
- Book reviews
- Calls for papers
- Course projects
- Information about political causes (even those with potential special interest to the academic community)
- News items or opinion pieces
- Patent applications
- Posters
- Presentation slides
- Proposals for future research
- Supplemental material that is not embedded in the full article
- Workshop or conference summaries
- Undergraduate or high school research
- Very short work

## Content types that typically are accepted include

- [Articles](#Articles)
- [Theses](#Theses)
- [Conference proceedings](/help/submit_index.html)
- [Books or book chapters](#Books)
- [Lecture notes](#Lecture%20notes)
- [Translations](/help/translations.html)
- [Comments and Reply to Comments](#Comments)

## Articles

Research articles are the primary content type submitted to arXiv. Articles should be complete final drafts.

## Theses

A thesis, like all other content types, should have novel results and be of plausible interest to professional researchers. Undergraduate or Master's level researchers should consult their advisor before submitting to arXiv.
  
## Conference proceedings

Please refer to [Submission of indexes for conference proceedings](/help/submit_index.html)


<a name="Books"></a>

## Books

Most submissions to arXiv are research articles, but we do accept other content types, including books and book chapters. Similar to article submissions, books and book chapters should be self-contained research with novel results or current reviews that are of interest to professional researchers in the field. Textbooks and books that are not research are not typically accepted. There are some exceptions though.

### Books as complete works

Books are acceptable as complete manuscripts as long as they are of interest. This format is preferred if the individual chapters are all by the same author(s).

### Individual book chapters

Individual book chapters may be submitted and will be moderated by the same standards as research articles.

### Book Front matter/Introductions/Appendices

An Introduction chapter or Appendix section would not typically be accepted on its own as they are not self-contained or of interest. In order to allow for a complete book to be posted to arXiv, where the chapters are submitted individually, we will allow a submission for the “non-research” sections of the book when:
The front matter, introductory chapters, appendices, etc. are combined into a submission that includes links to the individual chapters that are on arXiv. 


## Lecture Notes

Lecture notes, like all other content types, should have novel results and be of plausible interest to professional researchers. In some fields lecture notes are developed around novel research and written in a format similar to research articles that may be acceptable to submit to arXiv. 

Lecture notes that are pedagogical or that cover standard material should not be submitted.

## Translations

Please refer to the page on [Translations](/help/translations.html)

<a name="Comments"></a>

## Comments and Replies to Comments

arXiv encourages dialogue and debate about scientific matters. Normally this occurs via a series of papers that build on or critically examine each other. These are moderated each individually as standalone papers. Sometimes, a remark on or note about another paper that is not a full standalone paper is of sufficient interest to arXiv readers. These can be put on arXiv as so-called "comments-on" papers. All normal moderation criteria apply to these, except that they need not be complete standalone papers.

Requirements for Comments and Replies:

- “Comments-on” papers must include the arXiv-ID of the original paper in the Title and/or Comments metadata fields (e.g., “comment(s) on arXiv:YYMM.NNNNN").
- When a “comments-on” paper is posted on arXiv, a reply from the authors of the original paper is permitted (subject to the same moderation criteria as comments). Reply submissions should include the arXiv-ID of the “comments-on” paper to which they respond in the Title and/or Comments metadata fields (e.g., “reply to arXiv:YYMM.NNNNN”).
- With rare exceptions, arXiv only accepts “comments-on” papers in response to works that have appeared on arXiv. It is OK to refer to a version of the article posted elsewhere (such as a published journal version), but please make sure the arXiv-ID is still given in the metadata.
- In rare cases where the original paper is not on arXiv, the DOI of the original paper should be used to identify it in the metadata in place of an arXiv-ID.
- A chain of continued responses and counterresponses is allowed only as new versions of the initial Comment and Reply; these will not be accepted as new papers with new arXiv-IDs. A given author or co-author may submit only one Comment on a particular paper. Any subsequent issues the author wishes to raise must be done through version updates of the original Comment.

  * A replacement can be used two ways to create a new version under the same arXiv-ID:
    
    * Submit the new work as a replacement and include a note to readers in the metadata Comments field explaining the major differences in between versions. References to versions in the form of arXiv:YYMM.NNNNNvX that are included in the Comments metadata will automatically link to those versions. If you need help correcting the metadata Comments field after posting let [our user support team know](http://arxiv.org/support/general_help).
    * Combine the new work and previous versions into a single document. If the authorship has changed across versions, include a cover page that clearly indicates to readers which authors were involved in each section of the work. In this case, all authors can be included in the metadata Author field for the most recent version.
