source/help/policies/format_requirements.md, before:

# Policies for Format Requirements

All submissions to arXiv must meet the standards for [moderation and scholarly interest](/help/moderation/index.html).

Authors should use the following format requirements. As part of moderation we may ask for other requirements on an individual basis.

## Submissions should have:

- Complete references
- Author list (no anonymous submissions)
- Machine readability
- Single spaced text
- 10 to 14 point type
- Minimum 1" page margin

## Submissions should not have:
- Line numbers
- Watermarks that obstruct the text
- Advertisements of any kind
- Highlighted text
- Margin notes
- Referee remarks
- Copyright statements which prohibit or impair arXiv’s redistribution license

There are additional requirements based on the files submitted.

- [LaTeX/PDFLaTeX source requirements](https://info.arxiv.org/help/submit_tex.html)
- [PDF source requirements](/help/submit_pdf.html)

If your submission does not meet these requirements, it may be returned to you for correction.

Commit message:

Added guidelines and minor adjustments to content

source/help/policies/format_requirements.md, after:

# Policies for Format Requirements

All submissions to arXiv must meet the standards for [moderation and scholarly interest](/source/help/moderation/index.md).

Authors should use the following format requirements. As part of moderation we may ask for other requirements on an individual basis.

## Submission Requirements

### Submissions should have:

- Complete references
- Author list (no anonymous submissions)
- Links to code or data sets must resolve to a publicly available repository
- Machine readability
- Single spaced text
- 10 to 14 point type
- Minimum 1" page margin

### Submissions should not have:
- Line numbers
- Watermarks that obstruct the text
- Advertisements of any kind
- Highlighted text
- Margin notes
- Referee remarks
- Slides or posters included in the article body. [Please use ancillary files](/source/help/ancillary_files.md).
- Copyright statements which prohibit or impair arXiv’s redistribution license.

There are additional requirements based on the files submitted.

- [LaTeX/PDFLaTeX source requirements](/source/help/submit_tex.md)
- [PDF source requirements](/source/help/submit_pdf.md)

If your submission does not meet these requirements, it may be returned to you for correction. 

## Guidelines

### Large Sections of Non-Text Content
- Papers with long sections that are not article text, like code, images, or tables we encourage authors to use [ancillary files](/source/help/ancillary_files) rather than append them to the end of the document.
