about/index.md, before:

# About arXiv

arXiv® is a free distribution service and an open archive for scholarly articles in the fields of physics, mathematics, computer science, quantitative biology, quantitative finance, statistics, electrical engineering and systems science, and economics. arXiv is a collaboratively funded, community-supported resource founded by Paul Ginsparg in 1991 and maintained and operated by [Cornell University](https://www.cornell.edu/).

Operations are maintained by the [arXiv Leadership Team](/about/people/leadership_team) and arXiv staff at Cornell, with the help of numerous volunteer subject moderators. Governance of arXiv is led by the Leadership Team with guidance from the arXiv Scientific Advisory Board and the arXiv Member Advisory Board. arXiv is funded by Cornell University, the [Simons Foundation](https://www.simonsfoundation.org), [member institutions](/about/ourmembers), and [donors](/about/give).

Registered users may [submit articles](/help/submit) to be announced by arXiv. Submissions to arXiv are subject to a [moderation process](/help/moderation) that verifies material is topical to subject areas and has scholarly value. Material is not peer-reviewed by arXiv.

## News

- [Annual Update, January 2020](reports/2020_update)
- [2020 Roadmap](reports/2020_roadmap)
- [Usage Stats](/help/stats)
- [News and Announcements](/new)
- [arXiv Blog](https://blogs.cornell.edu/arxiv)


## Membership & Giving

- [Membership & Giving](/about/give)
- [Donate to arXiv](/about/donate)
- [Institutional Membership Program](/about/membership)
- [Our Members and Supporters](/about/ourmembers)


## Who We Are

- [arXiv Staff](people/staff)
- [Leadership Team](people/leadership_team)
- [Scientific Advisory Board](people/scientific_ad_board)
- [Member Advisory Board](people/member_ad_board)
- [Technical Advisory Group](/about/people/technical_ad_group)
- [Volunteer Moderators](/moderators)
- [Volunteer Developers](people/developers)
- [Join arXiv's User Testing Group](/about/user-testing)


## General Information

- [Governance](/about/governance)
- [Business Model](/about/reports-financials)
- [Annual Updates and Financials](reports)

Commit message:

added warranty blurb and disclaimer

about/index.md, after:

# About arXiv

arXiv® is a free distribution service and an open archive for scholarly articles in the fields of physics, mathematics, computer science, quantitative biology, quantitative finance, statistics, electrical engineering and systems science, and economics. arXiv is a collaboratively funded, community-supported resource founded by Paul Ginsparg in 1991 and maintained and operated by [Cornell University](https://www.cornell.edu/).

Operations are maintained by the [arXiv Leadership Team](/about/people/leadership_team) and arXiv staff at Cornell, with the help of numerous volunteer subject moderators. Governance of arXiv is led by the Leadership Team with guidance from the arXiv Scientific Advisory Board and the arXiv Member Advisory Board. arXiv is funded by Cornell University, the [Simons Foundation](https://www.simonsfoundation.org), [member institutions](/about/ourmembers), and [donors](/about/give).

Registered users may [submit articles](/help/submit) to be announced by arXiv. Submissions to arXiv are subject to a [moderation process](/help/moderation) that verifies material is topical to subject areas and has scholarly value. Material is not peer-reviewed by arXiv - the content of arXiv submissions are wholly the responsibility of the submitter and are presented “as is” without any warranty or guarantee. Hosting works or any materials on this site does not in any way convey tacit or implied approval of its assumptions, methods, results, or conclusions by any agent of arXiv or Cornell University (electronic, mechanical, or otherwise). 

## News

- [Annual Update, January 2020](reports/2020_update)
- [2020 Roadmap](reports/2020_roadmap)
- [Usage Stats](/help/stats)
- [News and Announcements](/new)
- [arXiv Blog](https://blogs.cornell.edu/arxiv)


## Membership & Giving

- [Membership & Giving](/about/give)
- [Donate to arXiv](/about/donate)
- [Institutional Membership Program](/about/membership)
- [Our Members and Supporters](/about/ourmembers)


## Who We Are

- [arXiv Staff](people/staff)
- [Leadership Team](people/leadership_team)
- [Scientific Advisory Board](people/scientific_ad_board)
- [Member Advisory Board](people/member_ad_board)
- [Technical Advisory Group](/about/people/technical_ad_group)
- [Volunteer Moderators](/moderators)
- [Volunteer Developers](people/developers)
- [Join arXiv's User Testing Group](/about/user-testing)


## General Information

- [Governance](/about/governance)
- [Business Model](/about/reports-financials)
- [Annual Updates and Financials](reports)
