about/ourmembers.md, before:

# Our Members
We gratefully acknowledge the support of the following 239 member institutions.
Learn more about [membership](/about/membership).

## Platinum Members

California Institute of Technology (US) 

Imperial College London (UK) _JISC_

Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) (US)

University of Cambridge (UK) _JISC_


## Tier 1

CERN-European Organization for Nuclear Research (Switzerland) 

Columbia University (US) 

DESY (HGF - Helmholtz Association, German Research Centers) (Germany) _arXiv-DH and HGF_ 

Ecole Polytechnique Fédérale de Lausanne (EPFL)  (Switzerland) 

ETH Zurich (Switzerland) 

Harvard University (US)

Kyoto University  (Japan) _NII Japan Consortium_

Max Planck Digital Library (Germany) 

New York University (US) 

Princeton University (US) 

Stanford University, and SLAC (US) 

University College London  (UK) _JISC_

University of California, Berkeley (US) _CDL_

University of California, Santa Barbara (US) _CDL_

University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign  (US) _BTAA_

University of Oxford  (UK) _JISC_

University of Tokyo  (Japan) _NII Japan Consortium_

University of Van Amsterdam  (Netherlands)

## Tier 2

Boston University (US) 

Durham University (UK) _JISC_

Georgia Institute of Technology (US) 

Italian Institute for Astrophysics (INAF) (Italy) 

Nagoya University  (Japan) _NII Japan Consortium_

Perimeter Institute for Theoretical Physics  (Canada) 

Rutgers University (US) _BTAA_

Stony Brook University  (US) 

Tohoku University (Japan) _NII Japan Consortium_

Universität Bonn  (Germany) _arXiv-DH and HGF_ 

Universität Heidelberg (Germany) _arXiv-DH and HGF_ 

Universität Mainz (Germany) _arXiv-DH and HGF_ 

University of California, Los Angeles (US) _CDL_

University of Colorado (US) 

University of Edinburgh (UK) _JISC_

University of Maryland (US) _BTAA_

University of Minnesota (US) _BTAA_

University of Pennsylvania (US) 

University of Texas at Austin (US) 

University of Toronto (Canada) 

University of Waterloo  (Canada) 

University of Wisconsin, Madison (US) _BTAA_

Yale University (US) 

## Tier 3

Brookhaven National Laboratory (US) 

Carnegie Mellon University (US) 

Chalmers University of Technology  (Sweden) 

Commissariat à l'Énergie Atomique (CEA) (France) _CCSD_

CSIC - Spanish National Research Council (Spain) 

Delft University of Technology  (Netherlands) 

Humboldt-Universität zu Berlin  (Germany) _arXiv-DH and HGF_ 

Institute for Advanced Study (US) 

International Centre for Theoretical Physics (ICTP) (Italy) 

Joint Institute for Nuclear Research (JINR)  (Russia) 

Karlsruher Institut für Technologie (Germany) _arXiv-DH and HGF_ 

KEK High Energy Accelerator Research Organization (Japan) _NII Japan Consortium_

Monash University (Australia)

National Taiwan University (Taiwan) 

Northwestern University (US) _BTAA_

Osaka University (Japan) _NII Japan Consortium_

Penn State University (US) _BTAA_

Purdue University (US) _BTAA_

RWTH Aachen  (Germany) _arXiv-DH and HGF_ 

SISSA (Scuola Internazionale Superiore di Studi Avanzati) (Italy) 

Technische Universität Berlin  (Germany) _arXiv-DH and HGF_ 

Technische Universität Darmstadt (Germany) _arXiv-DH and HGF_ 

Technische Universität München (Germany) _arXiv-DH and HGF_ 

Tel Aviv University (Israel) 

Texas A&M University  (US) 

Universität Frankfurt am Main  (Germany) _arXiv-DH and HGF_ 

Universität Hamburg  (Germany) _arXiv-DH and HGF_ 

Universität Hannover  (Germany) _arXiv-DH and HGF_ 

Université Paris-Sud (France) _CCSD_

University of Bristol (UK) _JISC_

University of British Columbia (Canada) 

University of California, Irvine (US) _CDL_

University of California, San Diego (US) _CDL_

University of Chicago (US) _BTAA_

University of Florida (US) 

University of Groningen  (Netherlands) 

University of Manchester (UK) _JISC_

University of Massachusetts (US) 

University of Michigan  (US) _BTAA_

University of Southern California (US) 

University of Sydney (Australia) 

University of Vienna  (Austria) 

University of Washington Libraries (US) 

University of Zurich, Institute of Theoretical Physics  (Switzerland) 

UPMC (Universite Pierre and Marie Curie) (France) _CCSD_

Uppsala University (Sweden) 

## Tier 4

Australian National University (Australia) 

Duke University (US) 

Freie Universität Berlin  (Germany) _arXiv-DH and HGF_ 

Harish-Chandra Research Institute (2016-2020 membership sponsored by Anurag Acharya) (India) 

Hebrew University of Jerusalem (Israel) 

Indiana University (US) _BTAA_

KTH Royal Institute of Technology  (Sweden) 

Leiden University (Leiden Institute of Physics) (Netherlands) 

Los Alamos National Laboratory  (US) 

McGill University (Canada) 

National Astronomical Observatory of Japan (Japan) _NII Japan Consortium_

Ohio State University (US) _BTAA_

Radboud University (Netherlands) 

Stockholm University (Sweden) 

Tokyo Institute of Technology Library (Japan) _NII Japan Consortium_

Universität Basel (Switzerland) 

Universität Erlangen-Nürnberg  (Germany) _arXiv-DH and HGF_ 

Universität Freiburg (Germany) _arXiv-DH and HGF_ 

Universität Regensburg  (Germany) _arXiv-DH and HGF_ 

Universität Stuttgart (Germany) _arXiv-DH and HGF_ 

Universität zu Köln  (Germany) _arXiv-DH and HGF_ 

Universität-Münster (Germany) _arXiv-DH and HGF_ 

Université de Montréal (Canada) 

University of Alberta (Canada) 

University of Bern  (Switzerland) 

University of California, Davis (US) _CDL_

University of Helsinki (Finland) 

University of Innsbruck (Austria) 

University of Melbourne (Australia) 

University of North Carolina (US) 

University of Queensland (Australia) 

University of Southampton (UK) _JISC_

University of Sussex (UK) _JISC_

University of Warwick (UK) _JISC_

Virginia Tech (US) 

Waseda University (Japan) _NII Japan Consortium_

## Tier 5

Arizona State University (US)

Bibliothèque de l'Observatoire de Paris (OBSPM) (France) _CCSD_

Forschungszentrum Julich (Germany) _arXiv-DH and HGF_ 

Ghent University Libraries (Belgium) 

Hokkaido University  (Japan) _NII Japan Consortium_

Keio University (Japan) _NII Japan Consortium_

King's College London (UK) _JISC_

Kyushu University (Japan) _NII Japan Consortium_

Lund University Libraries, Lund University (Sweden) 

Physical Research Laboratory (2016-2020 membership sponsored by Anurag Acharya) (India) 

Tata Institute of Fundamental Research (2016-2020 membership sponsored by Anurag Acharya) (India) 

Technische Universität Dortmund (Germany) _arXiv-DH and HGF_ 

Universität Bielefeld  (Germany) _arXiv-DH and HGF_ 

Universität Bochum  (Germany) _arXiv-DH and HGF_ 

Universität Jena (Germany) _arXiv-DH and HGF_ 

Universität Tübingen  (Germany) _arXiv-DH and HGF_ 

Universität Ulm (Germany) _arXiv-DH and HGF_ 

Universität Würzburg (Germany) _arXiv-DH and HGF_ 

Universitetet Oslo (Norway) 

University of Adelaide (Australia) 

University of Arizona (US) 

University of Glasgow (UK) _JISC_

University of New South Wales, Sydney (Australia) 

University of Sheffield (UK) _JISC_

University of Utah (US) 

Universität des Saarlandes (Germany) _arXiv-DH and HGF_ 

## Tier 6

Anonymous

Argonne National Lab (US) 

Boston College (US) 

Brandeis University (US) 

Brown University (US) 

Case Western Reserve University (US) 

Dublin Institute for Advanced Studies (Ireland) 

European Southern Observatory (Germany) 

Fermilab (US) 

Free University of Amsterdam (Netherlands) 

George Mason University (US) 

George Washington University (US) 

Georgetown University  (US) 

Hiroshima University (Japan) _NII Japan Consortium_

IHEP, National Science Library, CAS (China) 

Institute of Math Sciences (India) 

IST Austria (Austria) 

Johns Hopkins University (US) 

Kansas State University (US)

King Abdullah University of Science and Technology (KAUST) (Saudi Arabia)

Kobe University (Japan) _NII Japan Consortium_

Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory (US) _CDL_

Macquarie University (Australia) 

Michigan State University (US) _BTAA_

National University of Singapore (Singapore)

Nikhef (Netherlands) 

Oregon State (US)

Research Centre for Astronomy and Earth Sciences (Hungary) 

Rice University (US) 

Simon Fraser University (Canada) 

Technion - Israel Institute of Technology  (Israel) 

The College of William and Mary Physics Department (US) 

Tokyo University of Science (Japan) _NII Japan Consortium_

Tsinghua University  (China) 

Tufts University (US) 

Université de Grenoble Alpes (France) _CCSD_

Université de Rennes 1 (France) _CCSD_

University at Buffalo (US) 

University of Arkansas (US) 

University of Auckland (New Zealand) 

University of Birmingham (UK) _JISC_

University of California, Merced (US) _CDL_

University of California, Riverside  (US) _CDL_

University of California, San Francisco (US) _CDL_

University of California, Santa Cruz (US) _CDL_

University of Cape Town (South Africa) 

University of Cardiff (UK) _JISC_

University of Central Oklahoma (US) 

University of Geneva (Switzerland) 

University of Georgia (US) 

University of Hawaii (US) 

University of Iowa (US) _BTAA_

University of Kansas (US) 

University of Nebraska (US) _BTAA_

University of New Hampshire (US) 

University of North Texas (US)

University of Notre Dame (US) 

University of Nottingham (UK) _JISC_

University of Oregon (US) 

University of Pittsburgh (US) 

University of Rochester (US) 

University of Tsukuba (Japan) _NII Japan Consortium_

University of Virginia (US) 

University of Western Australia (Australia) 

University of Witwatersrand (South Africa) 

University of York (UK) _JISC_

Utrecht University (Netherlands) 

Villanova (US) 

Washington State University (US) 

Washington University in St. Louis  (US) 

Weizmann Institute of Science (Israel) 

Western University (Canada) 

Raman Research Institute (India) 


## Societies

American Astronomical Society (US)

American Institute of Physics Publishing (US)

American Mathematical Society (US)

American Physical Society (US)

Association for Computing Machinery (US)

Deutsche Physikalische Gesellschaft (Germany)

Institute of Physics Publishing (UK)


## Contributors as non-voting members

Arm Research (UK) 

Austrian Science Fund (Austria) 

Computer Vision Foundation (CVF) (US) 

Cornell University (US) 

Denmark Electronic Research Library (DEFF) (Denmark) 

Google Deep Mind (US) 

Microsoft Corporation (US)

Commit message:

added Chinese U of Hong Kong to Tier 2

about/ourmembers.md, after:

# Our Members
We gratefully acknowledge the support of the following 239 member institutions.
Learn more about [membership](/about/membership).

## Platinum Members

California Institute of Technology (US) 

Imperial College London (UK) _JISC_

Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) (US)

University of Cambridge (UK) _JISC_


## Tier 1

CERN-European Organization for Nuclear Research (Switzerland) 

Columbia University (US) 

DESY (HGF - Helmholtz Association, German Research Centers) (Germany) _arXiv-DH and HGF_ 

Ecole Polytechnique Fédérale de Lausanne (EPFL)  (Switzerland) 

ETH Zurich (Switzerland) 

Harvard University (US)

Kyoto University  (Japan) _NII Japan Consortium_

Max Planck Digital Library (Germany) 

New York University (US) 

Princeton University (US) 

Stanford University, and SLAC (US) 

University College London  (UK) _JISC_

University of California, Berkeley (US) _CDL_

University of California, Santa Barbara (US) _CDL_

University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign  (US) _BTAA_

University of Oxford  (UK) _JISC_

University of Tokyo  (Japan) _NII Japan Consortium_

University of Van Amsterdam  (Netherlands)

## Tier 2

Boston University (US) 

The Chinese University of Hong Kong (Hong Kong)

Durham University (UK) _JISC_

Georgia Institute of Technology (US) 

Italian Institute for Astrophysics (INAF) (Italy) 

Nagoya University  (Japan) _NII Japan Consortium_

Perimeter Institute for Theoretical Physics  (Canada) 

Rutgers University (US) _BTAA_

Stony Brook University  (US) 

Tohoku University (Japan) _NII Japan Consortium_

Universität Bonn  (Germany) _arXiv-DH and HGF_ 

Universität Heidelberg (Germany) _arXiv-DH and HGF_ 

Universität Mainz (Germany) _arXiv-DH and HGF_ 

University of California, Los Angeles (US) _CDL_

University of Colorado (US) 

University of Edinburgh (UK) _JISC_

University of Maryland (US) _BTAA_

University of Minnesota (US) _BTAA_

University of Pennsylvania (US) 

University of Texas at Austin (US) 

University of Toronto (Canada) 

University of Waterloo  (Canada) 

University of Wisconsin, Madison (US) _BTAA_

Yale University (US) 

## Tier 3

Brookhaven National Laboratory (US) 

Carnegie Mellon University (US) 

Chalmers University of Technology  (Sweden) 

Commissariat à l'Énergie Atomique (CEA) (France) _CCSD_

CSIC - Spanish National Research Council (Spain) 

Delft University of Technology  (Netherlands) 

Humboldt-Universität zu Berlin  (Germany) _arXiv-DH and HGF_ 

Institute for Advanced Study (US) 

International Centre for Theoretical Physics (ICTP) (Italy) 

Joint Institute for Nuclear Research (JINR)  (Russia) 

Karlsruher Institut für Technologie (Germany) _arXiv-DH and HGF_ 

KEK High Energy Accelerator Research Organization (Japan) _NII Japan Consortium_

Monash University (Australia)

National Taiwan University (Taiwan) 

Northwestern University (US) _BTAA_

Osaka University (Japan) _NII Japan Consortium_

Penn State University (US) _BTAA_

Purdue University (US) _BTAA_

RWTH Aachen  (Germany) _arXiv-DH and HGF_ 

SISSA (Scuola Internazionale Superiore di Studi Avanzati) (Italy) 

Technische Universität Berlin  (Germany) _arXiv-DH and HGF_ 

Technische Universität Darmstadt (Germany) _arXiv-DH and HGF_ 

Technische Universität München (Germany) _arXiv-DH and HGF_ 

Tel Aviv University (Israel) 

Texas A&M University  (US) 

Universität Frankfurt am Main  (Germany) _arXiv-DH and HGF_ 

Universität Hamburg  (Germany) _arXiv-DH and HGF_ 

Universität Hannover  (Germany) _arXiv-DH and HGF_ 

Université Paris-Sud (France) _CCSD_

University of Bristol (UK) _JISC_

University of British Columbia (Canada) 

University of California, Irvine (US) _CDL_

University of California, San Diego (US) _CDL_

University of Chicago (US) _BTAA_

University of Florida (US) 

University of Groningen  (Netherlands) 

University of Manchester (UK) _JISC_

University of Massachusetts (US) 

University of Michigan  (US) _BTAA_

University of Southern California (US) 

University of Sydney (Australia) 

University of Vienna  (Austria) 

University of Washington Libraries (US) 

University of Zurich, Institute of Theoretical Physics  (Switzerland) 

UPMC (Universite Pierre and Marie Curie) (France) _CCSD_

Uppsala University (Sweden) 

## Tier 4

Australian National University (Australia) 

Duke University (US) 

Freie Universität Berlin  (Germany) _arXiv-DH and HGF_ 

Harish-Chandra Research Institute (2016-2020 membership sponsored by Anurag Acharya) (India) 

Hebrew University of Jerusalem (Israel) 

Indiana University (US) _BTAA_

KTH Royal Institute of Technology  (Sweden) 

Leiden University (Leiden Institute of Physics) (Netherlands) 

Los Alamos National Laboratory  (US) 

McGill University (Canada) 

National Astronomical Observatory of Japan (Japan) _NII Japan Consortium_

Ohio State University (US) _BTAA_

Radboud University (Netherlands) 

Stockholm University (Sweden) 

Tokyo Institute of Technology Library (Japan) _NII Japan Consortium_

Universität Basel (Switzerland) 

Universität Erlangen-Nürnberg  (Germany) _arXiv-DH and HGF_ 

Universität Freiburg (Germany) _arXiv-DH and HGF_ 

Universität Regensburg  (Germany) _arXiv-DH and HGF_ 

Universität Stuttgart (Germany) _arXiv-DH and HGF_ 

Universität zu Köln  (Germany) _arXiv-DH and HGF_ 

Universität-Münster (Germany) _arXiv-DH and HGF_ 

Université de Montréal (Canada) 

University of Alberta (Canada) 

University of Bern  (Switzerland) 

University of California, Davis (US) _CDL_

University of Helsinki (Finland) 

University of Innsbruck (Austria) 

University of Melbourne (Australia) 

University of North Carolina (US) 

University of Queensland (Australia) 

University of Southampton (UK) _JISC_

University of Sussex (UK) _JISC_

University of Warwick (UK) _JISC_

Virginia Tech (US) 

Waseda University (Japan) _NII Japan Consortium_

## Tier 5

Arizona State University (US)

Bibliothèque de l'Observatoire de Paris (OBSPM) (France) _CCSD_

Forschungszentrum Julich (Germany) _arXiv-DH and HGF_ 

Ghent University Libraries (Belgium) 

Hokkaido University  (Japan) _NII Japan Consortium_

Keio University (Japan) _NII Japan Consortium_

King's College London (UK) _JISC_

Kyushu University (Japan) _NII Japan Consortium_

Lund University Libraries, Lund University (Sweden) 

Physical Research Laboratory (2016-2020 membership sponsored by Anurag Acharya) (India) 

Tata Institute of Fundamental Research (2016-2020 membership sponsored by Anurag Acharya) (India) 

Technische Universität Dortmund (Germany) _arXiv-DH and HGF_ 

Universität Bielefeld  (Germany) _arXiv-DH and HGF_ 

Universität Bochum  (Germany) _arXiv-DH and HGF_ 

Universität Jena (Germany) _arXiv-DH and HGF_ 

Universität Tübingen  (Germany) _arXiv-DH and HGF_ 

Universität Ulm (Germany) _arXiv-DH and HGF_ 

Universität Würzburg (Germany) _arXiv-DH and HGF_ 

Universitetet Oslo (Norway) 

University of Adelaide (Australia) 

University of Arizona (US) 

University of Glasgow (UK) _JISC_

University of New South Wales, Sydney (Australia) 

University of Sheffield (UK) _JISC_

University of Utah (US) 

Universität des Saarlandes (Germany) _arXiv-DH and HGF_ 

## Tier 6

Anonymous

Argonne National Lab (US) 

Boston College (US) 

Brandeis University (US) 

Brown University (US) 

Case Western Reserve University (US) 

Dublin Institute for Advanced Studies (Ireland) 

European Southern Observatory (Germany) 

Fermilab (US) 

Free University of Amsterdam (Netherlands) 

George Mason University (US) 

George Washington University (US) 

Georgetown University  (US) 

Hiroshima University (Japan) _NII Japan Consortium_

IHEP, National Science Library, CAS (China) 

Institute of Math Sciences (India) 

IST Austria (Austria) 

Johns Hopkins University (US) 

Kansas State University (US)

King Abdullah University of Science and Technology (KAUST) (Saudi Arabia)

Kobe University (Japan) _NII Japan Consortium_

Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory (US) _CDL_

Macquarie University (Australia) 

Michigan State University (US) _BTAA_

National University of Singapore (Singapore)

Nikhef (Netherlands) 

Oregon State (US)

Research Centre for Astronomy and Earth Sciences (Hungary) 

Rice University (US) 

Simon Fraser University (Canada) 

Technion - Israel Institute of Technology  (Israel) 

The College of William and Mary Physics Department (US) 

Tokyo University of Science (Japan) _NII Japan Consortium_

Tsinghua University  (China) 

Tufts University (US) 

Université de Grenoble Alpes (France) _CCSD_

Université de Rennes 1 (France) _CCSD_

University at Buffalo (US) 

University of Arkansas (US) 

University of Auckland (New Zealand) 

University of Birmingham (UK) _JISC_

University of California, Merced (US) _CDL_

University of California, Riverside  (US) _CDL_

University of California, San Francisco (US) _CDL_

University of California, Santa Cruz (US) _CDL_

University of Cape Town (South Africa) 

University of Cardiff (UK) _JISC_

University of Central Oklahoma (US) 

University of Geneva (Switzerland) 

University of Georgia (US) 

University of Hawaii (US) 

University of Iowa (US) _BTAA_

University of Kansas (US) 

University of Nebraska (US) _BTAA_

University of New Hampshire (US) 

University of North Texas (US)

University of Notre Dame (US) 

University of Nottingham (UK) _JISC_

University of Oregon (US) 

University of Pittsburgh (US) 

University of Rochester (US) 

University of Tsukuba (Japan) _NII Japan Consortium_

University of Virginia (US) 

University of Western Australia (Australia) 

University of Witwatersrand (South Africa) 

University of York (UK) _JISC_

Utrecht University (Netherlands) 

Villanova (US) 

Washington State University (US) 

Washington University in St. Louis  (US) 

Weizmann Institute of Science (Israel) 

Western University (Canada) 

Raman Research Institute (India) 


## Societies

American Astronomical Society (US)

American Institute of Physics Publishing (US)

American Mathematical Society (US)

American Physical Society (US)

Association for Computing Machinery (US)

Deutsche Physikalische Gesellschaft (Germany)

Institute of Physics Publishing (UK)


## Contributors as non-voting members

Arm Research (UK) 

Austrian Science Fund (Austria) 

Computer Vision Foundation (CVF) (US) 

Cornell University (US) 

Denmark Electronic Research Library (DEFF) (Denmark) 

Google Deep Mind (US) 

Microsoft Corporation (US)
