about/reports-financials.md, before:

# Business Model

arXiv’s sustainability planning creates a broad-based, community-supported resource, ensuring that the ultimate responsibility for sustaining arXiv remains with the research communities and institutions that benefit from the service most directly. arXiv’s sources of revenue are from 1) [Cornell University](https://www.cornell.edu/), which provides a cash subsidy in support of arXiv’s operational costs and an in-kind contribution of all indirect costs, which currently represents 37% of total operating expenses, 2) [The Simons Foundation](https://www.simonsfoundation.org/), 3) [member institutions](membership), 4) [gifts](give), and 5) grants from foundations and agencies.

### [See All Reports](/about/reports)

## Financials
arXiv maintains an operating Reserve Fund to support one-time program enhancement costs, unforeseen expenses, and ensure a sound business model. The reserve funds are structured in two categories of expenses: Operating Funds and Development Funds. Operating Funds can be used to cover short-term revenue shortages and emergencies expenses (e.g., equipment failure). Development Funds can be used for special projects that the arXiv team develops, proposes, and considers funding with SAB and MAB.

### FY2021 Financial Plan

| **REVENUE**        |    | **2020 BUDGET**        | 
| :------------- | :---------- |:-------------:| 
| Member Contributions      |  | $550,000 | 
| Simons Foundation Annual Commitment      |  | $100,000      |  
| Simons Foundation Matching Fund |  | $300,000      |    
| Cornell University (Direct + Leadership) |  | $241,352  |
| Cornell University (In Kind) |  | $654,655
| Other Gifts |  | $180,000  |  
| Funding from Development Reserves<sup>1</sup> |  | $414,339   |  
|  **Total Revenue** |  | **$2,423,994**   |   
|  **EXPENSES**  |   |   |  |
|  PERSONNEL<sup>2</sup>  SALARY & BENEFITS  |   |  | 
| Executive Director, Scientific Director  | | $322,154   |   
| Operational Staff | | $350,735   |  
| Technical Staff  | | $859,600  |  
| **Subtotal Personnel** |  | **$1,532,489**   |    
| NON-PERSONNEL  |   |    |    
| Services - Techincal | | $121,550   |    
| Services - Professional |  | $19,200 |  
| Services- Legal |  | $25,000 |  
| Meetings and Travel |  | $58,650 |  
| Other General Expense  |   | $12,450 |
| Indirect Costs | | $654,655 |
| Subtotal Non-Personnel |   | $891,505 |  
| **Total Direct Expenses** |  | **$2,423,994** |  
| **CONTRIBUTED INDIRECT EXPENSES** |  |  |  
|Contributed indirect expenses by Cornell (37% of modified total direct costs)<sup>3</sup> |   | | 
|Contributed volunteer time by arXiv's 180+ moderators | | not tracked |


<sup>1</sup> Anticipated drawing of funds from [developmental reserves](/about/reports/arXiv_Reserve_Funds_Policy.pdf).

<sup>2</sup> Staff costs include both Classic and Next Generation arXiv (arXiv-NG).

<sup>3</sup> Indirect costs covered by Cornell include those for Administration, Staff Support (Finance/Budget, HR, Facility, and Staff IT), Facilities (utility and other facility related cost for building), maintenance, custodial, utility, and other facility related costs for the building.

### [All Reports and Financials](/about/reports)

Commit message:

updating links to reports, finances, and brand guide, and updating budget to FY2021

about/reports-financials.md, after:

# Business Model

arXiv’s sustainability planning creates a broad-based, community-supported resource, ensuring that the ultimate responsibility for sustaining arXiv remains with the research communities and institutions that benefit from the service most directly. arXiv’s sources of revenue are from 1) [Cornell University](https://www.cornell.edu/), which provides a cash subsidy in support of arXiv’s operational costs and an in-kind contribution of all indirect costs, which currently represents 37% of total operating expenses, 2) [The Simons Foundation](https://www.simonsfoundation.org/), 3) [member institutions](membership), 4) [gifts](give), and 5) grants from foundations and agencies.

### [See All Reports](/about/reports)

## Financials
arXiv maintains an operating Reserve Fund to support one-time program enhancement costs, unforeseen expenses, and ensure a sound business model. The reserve funds are structured in two categories of expenses: Operating Funds and Development Funds. Operating Funds can be used to cover short-term revenue shortages and emergencies expenses (e.g., equipment failure). Development Funds can be used for special projects that the arXiv team develops, proposes, and considers funding with SAB and MAB.

### FY2021 Financial Plan

| **FUNDING**        |    | **FY2021 BUDGET**        |
| :------------- | :---------- |:-------------:|
| Member Contributions      |  | $550,000 |
| Simons Foundation Annual Commitment      |  | $100,000      |  
| Simons Foundation Matching Fund |  | $300,000      |    
| Cornell University (Direct + Leadership) |  | $241,352  |
| Cornell University (In Kind)<sup>2</sup> |  | $654,655
| Other Gifts |  | $180,000  |  
| Funding from Development Reserves<sup>1</sup> |  | $414,339   |  
|  **Total FUNDING** |  | **$2,423,994**   |   
|  **EXPENSES**  |   |   |  |
|  PERSONNEL  SALARY & BENEFITS  |   |  |
| Executive Director, Scientific Director  | | $322,154   |   
| Operational Staff | | $350,735   |  
| Technical Staff  | | $859,600  |  
| **Subtotal Personnel** |  | **$1,532,489**   |    
| NON-PERSONNEL  |   |    |    
| Services - Technical | | $121,550   |    
| Services - Professional |  | $19,200 |  
| Services- Legal |  | $25,000 |  
| Meetings and Travel |  | $58,650 |  
| Other General Expense  |   | $12,450 |
| Indirect Costs<sup>2</sup> | | $654,655 |
| Subtotal Non-Personnel |   | $891,505 |  
| **Total Direct Expenses** |  | **$2,423,994** |  
| **CONTRIBUTED INDIRECT EXPENSES** |  |  |  
|Contributed indirect expenses by Cornell (37% of modified total direct costs)<sup>3</sup> |   | |
|Contributed volunteer time by arXiv's 180+ moderators | | not tracked |


<sup>1</sup> Anticipated drawing of funds from [developmental reserves](/about/reports/arXiv_Reserve_Funds_Policy.pdf).

<sup>2</sup> Indirect costs covered by Cornell include those for Administration, Staff Support (Finance/Budget, HR, Facility, and Staff IT), Facilities (utility and other facility related cost for building), maintenance, custodial, utility, and other facility related costs for the building.

Note: arXiv now reports its budget by fiscal year instead of calendar year. In FY2021, arXiv began reporting indirect costs and Cornell's In Kind contribution as part of the budget.

### [All Reports and Financials](/about/reports)
