source/help/api/basics.md, before:

---
title: arXiv API Basics
---
<span style="float: right">![arXiv api logo](arXiv_api_xml.png)</span>

# arXiv API Basics

The goal of the API is to allow application developers access to all of the arXiv data, search and
linking facilities with an easy-to-use programmatic interface. This page
provides links to developer documentation, and gives instructions for
how to join the mailing list and contact other developers and
maintainers. 

Please review the [Terms of Use for arXiv APIs](tou.md) before using the arXiv
API.

For more news and questions about the arXiv API, please see our [arxiv-api
group](https://groups.google.com/a/arxiv.org/g/api). 

  - [About the arXiv API](#about)

  - [Quickstart](#quickstart)

  - [Using the arXiv API](#using)

  - [arXiv API documentation](user-manual.md)

  - [Community](#community)

<a name="about"></a>
## About the arXiv API

The Cornell University e-print arXiv, hosted at
[arXiv.org](http://arxiv.org), is a document submission and retrieval
system that is heavily used by the physics, mathematics and computer
science communities. It has become the primary means of communicating
cutting-edge manuscripts on current and ongoing research. The
open-access arXiv e-print repository is available worldwide, and
presents no entry barriers to readers, thus facilitating scholarly
communication. Manuscripts are often submitted to the arXiv before they
are published by more traditional means. In some cases they may never be
submitted or published elsewhere, and in others, arXiv-hosted
manuscripts are used as the submission channel to traditional publishers
such as the American Physical Society, and newer forms of publication
such as the Journal for High Energy Physics and overlay journals.

The primary interface to the arXiv has been human-oriented html web
pages. The purpose of the arXiv API is to allow programmatic access to
the arXiv's e-print content and metadata. The goal of the interface is
to facilitate new and creative use of the the vast body of material on
the arXiv by providing a low barrier to entry for application
developers.

## Quickstart

API calls are made via an HTTP GET or POST requests to an appropriate
url. For example, the url

<http://export.arxiv.org/api/query?search_query=all:electron>

retrieves results that match the search query `all:electron`. This url
can be accessed from any web-enabled client including your web browser,
or via web libraries common to almost all programming languages. There
is no arXiv-supplied software that must be downloaded and installed to
be able to use the api.

Please see [Using the arXiv API](#using), or the [User's
Manual](user-manual.md) for more information.

<a name="using"></a>
## Using the arXiv API

Since the arXiv API is based on the now ubiquitous HTTP, using it should
be fairly straight forward from the programming language of your choice.
The primary access point for the api is a url that encodes your desired
search parameters. For example, the
url:

<http://export.arxiv.org/api/query?search_query=all:electron&start=0&max_results=10>

indicates that you want to use the api query interface to retrieve the
first ten results that match the query `all:electron`. This url calls
the api, which returns the results in the Atom 1.0 format.

Atom 1.0 is an xml-based format that is commonly used in website
syndication feeds. It is lightweight, and human readable, and results
can be cleanly read in many web browsers. For detailed information on
Atom, you can read the [official Atom 1.0
specification](http://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc4287.txt).

We recommend that you use a web browser such as to play around with
constructing the api url's to get a feel for how the system works. This
is also a great debugging tool to make sure your url's make sense to the
api. [Firefox](http://en.www.mozilla.com/en/firefox/) renders Atom
particularly cleanly. More detailed documentation on constructing API
urls can be found in the [User's Manual](user-manual.md#Architecture).

Once you have familiarized yourself with the api, you should be able to
easily write programs that call the API automatically. Most programming
languages, if not all, have libraries that allow you to make HTTP
requests. Since Atom is growing, not all languages have libraries that
support Atom parsing, so most of the programming effort will be in
digesting the responses you receive. The languages that we know of that
can easily handle calling the api via HTTP and parsing the results
include:

  - [Perl](http://www.perl.org) (via
    [XML::Atom](http://search.cpan.org/~miyagawa/XML-Atom-0.27/))
    ([example](#perl_simple_example))

  - [Python](http://www.python.org) (via
    [feedparser](https://github.com/kurtmckee/feedparser))
    ([example](#python_simple_example))

  - [Ruby](http://www.ruby-lang.org) (via
    [feedtools](http://sporkmonger.com/2005/08/11/tutorial))
    ([example](#ruby_simple_example))

  - [PHP](http://www.php.net) (via [SimplePie](http://simplepie.org/))
    ([example](#php_simple_example))

Below we include code snippets for these languages that perform the bare
minimum functionality - calling the api and printing the raw Atom
results. See the documentation and example programs for more detailed
examples. If your favorite language is not up here, write us with an
example, and we'll be glad to post it\! For more detailed examples in
these languages which cover more advanced API programming, please see
the [User's Manual](user-manual.md#detailed_examples).

All of the simple examples produce an output which looks like:

**Example: A Typical Atom Response (wrapped for ease of reading, [issue
query
now](http://export.arxiv.org/api/query?search_query=all:electron&id_list=&start=0&max_results=1))**
```xml
    <?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
    <feed xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2005/Atom"
          xmlns:opensearch="http://a9.com/-/spec/opensearch/1.1/"
          xmlns:arxiv="http://arxiv.org/schemas/atom">
      <link xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2005/Atom"
       href="http://export.arxiv.org/api/query?search_query=all:electron&amp;id_list=&amp;start=0&amp;max_results=1"
       rel="self" type="application/atom+xml"/>
      <title xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2005/Atom">ArXiv Query:
    search_query=all:electron&amp;id_list=&amp;start=0&amp;max_results=1</title>
      <id xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2005/Atom">http://arxiv.org/api/cHxbiOdZaP56ODnBPIenZhzg5f8</id>
      <updated xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2005/Atom">2007-10-08T00:00:00-04:00</updated>
      <opensearch:totalResults xmlns:opensearch="http://a9.com/-/spec/opensearch/1.1/">1000</opensearch:totalResults>
      <opensearch:startIndex xmlns:opensearch="http://a9.com/-/spec/opensearch/1.1/">0</opensearch:startIndex>
      <opensearch:itemsPerPage xmlns:opensearch="http://a9.com/-/spec/opensearch/1.1/">1</opensearch:itemsPerPage>
      <entry xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2005/Atom" xmlns:arxiv="http://arxiv.org/schemas/atom">
        <id xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2005/Atom">http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-ex/0307015</id>
        <published xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2005/Atom">2003-07-07T13:46:39-04:00</published>
        <updated xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2005/Atom">2003-07-07T13:46:39-04:00</updated>
        <title xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2005/Atom">Multi-Electron Production at High Transverse
    Momenta in ep Collisions at HERA</title>
        <summary xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2005/Atom">
      Multi-electron production is studied at high electron transverse momentum in
    positron- and electron-proton collisions using the H1 detector at HERA. The
    data correspond to an integrated luminosity of 115 pb-1. Di-electron and
    tri-electron event yields are measured. Cross sections are derived in a
    restricted phase space region dominated by photon-photon collisions. In general
    good agreement is found with the Standard Model predictions. However, for
    electron pair invariant masses above 100 GeV, three di-electron events and
    three tri-electron events are observed, compared to Standard Model expectations
    of 0.30 \pm 0.04 and 0.23 \pm 0.04, respectively.
    </summary>
        <author xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2005/Atom">
          <name xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2005/Atom">H1 Collaboration</name>
        </author>
        <arxiv:comment xmlns:arxiv="http://arxiv.org/schemas/atom">23 pages, 8 figures and 4 tables</arxiv:comment>
        <arxiv:journal_ref xmlns:arxiv="http://arxiv.org/schemas/atom">Eur.Phys.J. C31 (2003) 17-29</arxiv:journal_ref>
        <link xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2005/Atom"
         href="http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-ex/0307015v1" rel="alternate" type="text/html"/>
        <link xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2005/Atom" title="pdf"
         href="http://arxiv.org/pdf/hep-ex/0307015v1" rel="related" type="application/pdf"/>
        <arxiv:primary_category xmlns:arxiv="http://arxiv.org/schemas/atom"
         term="hep-ex" scheme="http://arxiv.org/schemas/atom"/>
        <category term="hep-ex" scheme="http://arxiv.org/schemas/atom"/>
      </entry>
    </feed>
```

<a name="perl_simple_example"></a>
### Perl

[LWP](http://search.cpan.org/~gaas/libwww-perl-5.836/lib/LWP.pm) is in
the default perl installation on most platforms. It can be downloaded
and installed from
[CPAN](http://search.cpan.org/~gaas/libwww-perl-5.836/lib/LWP.pm).
Sample code to produce the above output is:

```perl
    use LWP;
    use strict;

    my $url = 'http://export.arxiv.org/api/query?search_query=all:electron&start=0&max_results=1';
    my $browser = LWP::UserAgent->new();
    my $response = $browser->get($url);
    print $response->content();
```

<a name="python_simple_example"></a>
### Python

The [urllib](https://docs.python.org/3/library/urllib.html) module is
part of the [python standard
library](https://docs.python.org/3/library/index.html), and is included in any
default installation of python. Sample code to produce the above output
is:

```python
    import urllib, urllib.request
    url = 'http://export.arxiv.org/api/query?search_query=all:electron&start=0&max_results=1'
    data = urllib.request.urlopen(url)
    print(data.read().decode('utf-8'))
```

<a name="ruby_simple_example"></a>
### Ruby

The
[net/http](http://www.ruby-doc.org/stdlib/libdoc/net/http/rdoc/index.html)
and [uri](http://www.ruby-doc.org/stdlib/libdoc/uri/rdoc/) modules are
part of the [ruby standard library](http://www.ruby-doc.org/stdlib/),
and are included in any default installation of ruby. Sample code to
produce the above output is:

```ruby
    require 'net/http'
    require 'uri'
    url = URI.parse('http://export.arxiv.org/api/query?search_query=all:electron&start=0&max_results=1')
    res = Net::HTTP.get_response(url)
    print res.body
```

<a name="php_simple_example"></a>
#### PHP

The file\_get\_contents() function is part of the PHP core language:

```php
    <?php
    $url = 'http://export.arxiv.org/api/query?search_query=all:electron&start=0&max_results=1';
    $response = file_get_contents($url);
    print_r($response);
    ?>
```

## arXiv API documentation

The API [User's Manual](user-manual.md) discusses the API interface and
returned Atom format in detail, and gives code examples in the languages
listed above. The [API FAQ](faq.md) has answers to common questions, or
feel free to ask the [arxiv-api discussion
list](https://groups.google.com/a/arxiv.org/g/api).

## Community

We would love to know how you are using the arXiv API. Please send us an
email to the [mailing list](https://groups.google.com/a/arxiv.org/g/api) to
tell us about your project, and what language/library you are using.
Please include a url of your project, and we will post a link to it from
this page.

The best way to learn about the arXiv API, and to get help from others
is to join our [mailing list](https://groups.google.com/a/arxiv.org/g/api).
It is better to ask your questions in this forum for all to see. More
often than not, someone else has the same question, or can provide an
answer. Questions and feedback are the primary information channel that
we use to improve this service.

### Projects Using the API

The following projects use the arXiv API:

  - [OpenWetWare's Mediawiki Installation](http://openwetware.org)

  - [Sonny Software's Bookends Reference Manager for
    OSX](http://sonnysoftware.com)

  - [arXiv Droid - arXiv app for
    Android](https://launchpad.net/arxivdroid)

  - [Retrieve Bibliographic arXiv
    Information](http://www.crcg.de/arXivToBibTeX/)

  - [The snarXiv](http://snarxiv.org/vs-arxiv/)

  - [daily arXiv by categories](http://dailyarxiv.com/)

  - [PaperRater.org - a web-based tool for open review and social
    reading of scientific publications](http://www.paperrater.org)

  - [ArXiv Analytics - a web portal for reading and discussing arXiv
    eprints](http://arxitics.com/)

  - [Bibcure - keeps bibtex up to date and normalized, and allows you to
    download all papers inside your
    bibtex](https://github.com/bibcure/bibcure)

  - [biblio.el - Download BibTeX entries from arXiv and others in
    Emacs](https://github.com/cpitclaudel/biblio.el)

  - [Lib arXiv - arXiv app for iOS devices](http://www.naru.jpn.com/lib_arxiv/en/)

  - [arxivist.com](http://arxivist.com)

### Helping Out

We love to hear from you. If you have changes to the documentation, code
examples, example applications that use the API, and general comments,
please send them to the [mailing
list](https://groups.google.com/a/arxiv.org/g/api). We value all of your
discussion.

### Mailing List

To join the mailing list, please visit our [arxiv-api groups
page](https://groups.google.com/a/arxiv.org/g/api). Anyone can join, and we
encourage you to do so.

Commit message:

Updating missing links-take three

source/help/api/basics.md, after:

---
title: arXiv API Basics
---
<span style="float: right">![arXiv api logo](arXiv_api_xml.png)</span>

# arXiv API Basics

The goal of the API is to allow application developers access to all of the arXiv data, search and
linking facilities with an easy-to-use programmatic interface. This page
provides links to developer documentation, and gives instructions for
how to join the mailing list and contact other developers and
maintainers. 

Please review the [Terms of Use for arXiv APIs](tou.md) before using the arXiv
API.

For more news and questions about the arXiv API, please see our [arxiv-api
group](https://groups.google.com/a/arxiv.org/g/api). 

  - [About the arXiv API](#about)

  - [Quickstart](#quickstart)

  - [Using the arXiv API](#using)

  - [arXiv API documentation](user-manual.md)

  - [Community](#community)

<a name="about"></a>
## About the arXiv API

The Cornell University e-print arXiv, hosted at
[arXiv.org](http://arxiv.org), is a document submission and retrieval
system that is heavily used by the physics, mathematics and computer
science communities. It has become the primary means of communicating
cutting-edge manuscripts on current and ongoing research. The
open-access arXiv e-print repository is available worldwide, and
presents no entry barriers to readers, thus facilitating scholarly
communication. Manuscripts are often submitted to the arXiv before they
are published by more traditional means. In some cases they may never be
submitted or published elsewhere, and in others, arXiv-hosted
manuscripts are used as the submission channel to traditional publishers
such as the American Physical Society, and newer forms of publication
such as the Journal for High Energy Physics and overlay journals.

The primary interface to the arXiv has been human-oriented html web
pages. The purpose of the arXiv API is to allow programmatic access to
the arXiv's e-print content and metadata. The goal of the interface is
to facilitate new and creative use of the the vast body of material on
the arXiv by providing a low barrier to entry for application
developers.

## Quickstart

API calls are made via an HTTP GET or POST requests to an appropriate
url. For example, the url

<http://export.arxiv.org/api/query?search_query=all:electron>

retrieves results that match the search query `all:electron`. This url
can be accessed from any web-enabled client including your web browser,
or via web libraries common to almost all programming languages. There
is no arXiv-supplied software that must be downloaded and installed to
be able to use the api.

Please see [Using the arXiv API](#using), or the [User's
Manual](user-manual.md) for more information.

<a name="using"></a>
## Using the arXiv API

Since the arXiv API is based on the now ubiquitous HTTP, using it should
be fairly straight forward from the programming language of your choice.
The primary access point for the api is a url that encodes your desired
search parameters. For example, the
url:

<http://export.arxiv.org/api/query?search_query=all:electron&start=0&max_results=10>

indicates that you want to use the api query interface to retrieve the
first ten results that match the query `all:electron`. This url calls
the api, which returns the results in the Atom 1.0 format.

Atom 1.0 is an xml-based format that is commonly used in website
syndication feeds. It is lightweight, and human readable, and results
can be cleanly read in many web browsers. For detailed information on
Atom, you can read the [official Atom 1.0
specification](http://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc4287.txt).

We recommend that you use a web browser such as to play around with
constructing the api url's to get a feel for how the system works. This
is also a great debugging tool to make sure your url's make sense to the
api. [Firefox](http://en.www.mozilla.com/en/firefox/) renders Atom
particularly cleanly. More detailed documentation on constructing API
urls can be found in the [User's Manual](user-manual.md#Architecture).

Once you have familiarized yourself with the api, you should be able to
easily write programs that call the API automatically. Most programming
languages, if not all, have libraries that allow you to make HTTP
requests. Since Atom is growing, not all languages have libraries that
support Atom parsing, so most of the programming effort will be in
digesting the responses you receive. The languages that we know of that
can easily handle calling the api via HTTP and parsing the results
include:

  - [Perl](http://www.perl.org) (via
    [XML::Atom](http://search.cpan.org/~miyagawa/XML-Atom-0.27/))
    ([example](#perl_simple_example))

  - [Python](http://www.python.org) (via
    [feedparser](https://github.com/kurtmckee/feedparser))
    ([example](#python_simple_example))

  - [Ruby](http://www.ruby-lang.org) (via
    [feedtools](http://sporkmonger.com/2005/08/11/tutorial))
    ([example](#ruby_simple_example))

  - [PHP](http://www.php.net) (via [SimplePie](http://simplepie.org/))
    ([example](#php_simple_example))

Below we include code snippets for these languages that perform the bare
minimum functionality - calling the api and printing the raw Atom
results. See the documentation and example programs for more detailed
examples. If your favorite language is not up here, write us with an
example, and we'll be glad to post it\! For more detailed examples in
these languages which cover more advanced API programming, please see
the [User's Manual](user-manual.md#detailed_examples).

All of the simple examples produce an output which looks like:

**Example: A Typical Atom Response (wrapped for ease of reading, [issue
query
now](http://export.arxiv.org/api/query?search_query=all:electron&id_list=&start=0&max_results=1))**
```xml
    <?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
    <feed xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2005/Atom"
          xmlns:opensearch="http://a9.com/-/spec/opensearch/1.1/"
          xmlns:arxiv="http://arxiv.org/schemas/atom">
      <link xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2005/Atom"
       href="http://export.arxiv.org/api/query?search_query=all:electron&amp;id_list=&amp;start=0&amp;max_results=1"
       rel="self" type="application/atom+xml"/>
      <title xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2005/Atom">ArXiv Query:
    search_query=all:electron&amp;id_list=&amp;start=0&amp;max_results=1</title>
      <id xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2005/Atom">http://arxiv.org/api/cHxbiOdZaP56ODnBPIenZhzg5f8</id>
      <updated xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2005/Atom">2007-10-08T00:00:00-04:00</updated>
      <opensearch:totalResults xmlns:opensearch="http://a9.com/-/spec/opensearch/1.1/">1000</opensearch:totalResults>
      <opensearch:startIndex xmlns:opensearch="http://a9.com/-/spec/opensearch/1.1/">0</opensearch:startIndex>
      <opensearch:itemsPerPage xmlns:opensearch="http://a9.com/-/spec/opensearch/1.1/">1</opensearch:itemsPerPage>
      <entry xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2005/Atom" xmlns:arxiv="http://arxiv.org/schemas/atom">
        <id xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2005/Atom">http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-ex/0307015</id>
        <published xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2005/Atom">2003-07-07T13:46:39-04:00</published>
        <updated xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2005/Atom">2003-07-07T13:46:39-04:00</updated>
        <title xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2005/Atom">Multi-Electron Production at High Transverse
    Momenta in ep Collisions at HERA</title>
        <summary xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2005/Atom">
      Multi-electron production is studied at high electron transverse momentum in
    positron- and electron-proton collisions using the H1 detector at HERA. The
    data correspond to an integrated luminosity of 115 pb-1. Di-electron and
    tri-electron event yields are measured. Cross sections are derived in a
    restricted phase space region dominated by photon-photon collisions. In general
    good agreement is found with the Standard Model predictions. However, for
    electron pair invariant masses above 100 GeV, three di-electron events and
    three tri-electron events are observed, compared to Standard Model expectations
    of 0.30 \pm 0.04 and 0.23 \pm 0.04, respectively.
    </summary>
        <author xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2005/Atom">
          <name xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2005/Atom">H1 Collaboration</name>
        </author>
        <arxiv:comment xmlns:arxiv="http://arxiv.org/schemas/atom">23 pages, 8 figures and 4 tables</arxiv:comment>
        <arxiv:journal_ref xmlns:arxiv="http://arxiv.org/schemas/atom">Eur.Phys.J. C31 (2003) 17-29</arxiv:journal_ref>
        <link xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2005/Atom"
         href="http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-ex/0307015v1" rel="alternate" type="text/html"/>
        <link xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2005/Atom" title="pdf"
         href="http://arxiv.org/pdf/hep-ex/0307015v1" rel="related" type="application/pdf"/>
        <arxiv:primary_category xmlns:arxiv="http://arxiv.org/schemas/atom"
         term="hep-ex" scheme="http://arxiv.org/schemas/atom"/>
        <category term="hep-ex" scheme="http://arxiv.org/schemas/atom"/>
      </entry>
    </feed>
```

<a name="perl_simple_example"></a>
### Perl

[LWP](http://search.cpan.org/~gaas/libwww-perl-5.836/lib/LWP.pm) is in
the default perl installation on most platforms. It can be downloaded
and installed from
[CPAN](http://search.cpan.org/~gaas/libwww-perl-5.836/lib/LWP.pm).
Sample code to produce the above output is:

```perl
    use LWP;
    use strict;

    my $url = 'http://export.arxiv.org/api/query?search_query=all:electron&start=0&max_results=1';
    my $browser = LWP::UserAgent->new();
    my $response = $browser->get($url);
    print $response->content();
```

<a name="python_simple_example"></a>
### Python

The [urllib](https://docs.python.org/3/library/urllib.html) module is
part of the [python standard
library](https://docs.python.org/3/library/index.html), and is included in any
default installation of python. Sample code to produce the above output
is:

```python
    import urllib, urllib.request
    url = 'http://export.arxiv.org/api/query?search_query=all:electron&start=0&max_results=1'
    data = urllib.request.urlopen(url)
    print(data.read().decode('utf-8'))
```

<a name="ruby_simple_example"></a>
### Ruby

The
[net/http](http://www.ruby-doc.org/stdlib/libdoc/net/http/rdoc/index.html)
and [uri](http://www.ruby-doc.org/stdlib/libdoc/uri/rdoc/) modules are
part of the [ruby standard library](http://www.ruby-doc.org/stdlib/),
and are included in any default installation of ruby. Sample code to
produce the above output is:

```ruby
    require 'net/http'
    require 'uri'
    url = URI.parse('http://export.arxiv.org/api/query?search_query=all:electron&start=0&max_results=1')
    res = Net::HTTP.get_response(url)
    print res.body
```

<a name="php_simple_example"></a>
#### PHP

The file\_get\_contents() function is part of the PHP core language:

```php
    <?php
    $url = 'http://export.arxiv.org/api/query?search_query=all:electron&start=0&max_results=1';
    $response = file_get_contents($url);
    print_r($response);
    ?>
```

## arXiv API documentation

The API [User's Manual](user-manual.md) discusses the API interface and
returned Atom format in detail, and gives code examples in the languages
listed above. The [API Basics](../api/basics.md) offers an introduction to using the API, answers basic questions, and includes links to developer documentation, or
feel free to ask the [arxiv-api discussion
list](https://groups.google.com/a/arxiv.org/g/api).

## Community

We would love to know how you are using the arXiv API. Please send us an
email to the [mailing list](https://groups.google.com/a/arxiv.org/g/api) to
tell us about your project, and what language/library you are using.
Please include a url of your project, and we will post a link to it from
this page.

The best way to learn about the arXiv API, and to get help from others
is to join our [mailing list](https://groups.google.com/a/arxiv.org/g/api).
It is better to ask your questions in this forum for all to see. More
often than not, someone else has the same question, or can provide an
answer. Questions and feedback are the primary information channel that
we use to improve this service.

### Projects Using the API

The following projects use the arXiv API:

  - [OpenWetWare's Mediawiki Installation](http://openwetware.org)

  - [Sonny Software's Bookends Reference Manager for
    OSX](http://sonnysoftware.com)

  - [arXiv Droid - arXiv app for
    Android](https://launchpad.net/arxivdroid)

  - [Retrieve Bibliographic arXiv
    Information](http://www.crcg.de/arXivToBibTeX/)

  - [The snarXiv](http://snarxiv.org/vs-arxiv/)

  - [daily arXiv by categories](http://dailyarxiv.com/)

  - [PaperRater.org - a web-based tool for open review and social
    reading of scientific publications](http://www.paperrater.org)

  - [ArXiv Analytics - a web portal for reading and discussing arXiv
    eprints](http://arxitics.com/)

  - [Bibcure - keeps bibtex up to date and normalized, and allows you to
    download all papers inside your
    bibtex](https://github.com/bibcure/bibcure)

  - [biblio.el - Download BibTeX entries from arXiv and others in
    Emacs](https://github.com/cpitclaudel/biblio.el)

  - [Lib arXiv - arXiv app for iOS devices](http://www.naru.jpn.com/lib_arxiv/en/)

  - [arxivist.com](http://arxivist.com)

### Helping Out

We love to hear from you. If you have changes to the documentation, code
examples, example applications that use the API, and general comments,
please send them to the [mailing
list](https://groups.google.com/a/arxiv.org/g/api). We value all of your
discussion.

### Mailing List

To join the mailing list, please visit our [arxiv-api groups
page](https://groups.google.com/a/arxiv.org/g/api). Anyone can join, and we
encourage you to do so.
