labs/project-proposal.md, before:

# Submit your project to arXivLabs

<style>
.mkd-img-right {
  float:right;
  width:100%;
  margin-top:0;
}
.mkd-img-thumb {
  max-width:150px !important;
}
blockquote {
  border-left:0;
  margin:0;
  padding:0;
}
.form-proposals {
  margin-bottom: 2em;
  padding-top: 2em;
  border: 2px solid #;
  border-radius: 1em;
  -webkit-box-shadow: 1px 1px 2px 1px rgba(116,144,153,0.76);
  box-shadow: 1px 1px 2px 1px rgba(116,144,153,0.76);
}
@media (min-width: 576px) {
  .mkd-img-right {
    width:calc(50% - 1.25em);
    margin-left:2em;
  }
}
</style>

# Submit your project to arXivLabs

_*arXiv Labs is back from vacation. As of December 2022 we are open for reviewing new proposals. Please email <a href="mailto:arxiv-labs&commat;arxiv&period;org">arxiv-labs&commat;arxiv&period;org</a> if you have something to propose*_

Visit [Labs criteria](criteria.md) to learn more about the criteria for Labs projects.

It is not necessary to be part of a Labs project to use the arXiv APIs. Many projects that use APIs and other methods to access arXiv's metadata, full text, or source files are **not** arXivLabs projects. Learn more about [arXiv API access and data usage here.](https://arxiv.org/help/api/)

arXiv welcomes anyone, from single individuals to large companies, to contribute ideas and propose their project for arXivLabs. All projects must abide by arXiv’s values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy.

<!-- To propose a project fill out all fields in our project proposal form. _Scroll within the frame_ below to access the full form and fill out all fields on each page (a total of four steps). -->

<!-- <iframe src="https://cornell.ca1.qualtrics.com/jfe/form/SV_6utTdLVDVlaTz5Y" height="750px" width="100%" class="form-proposals" title="submit a proposal to arxiv labs"></iframe> -->

<!-- _Is the form above not displaying? <a href="https://cornell.ca1.qualtrics.com/jfe/form/SV_6utTdLVDVlaTz5Y">Open it in Qualtrics</a>_ -->

Commit message:

Put in links to Jira Service Desk portal for proposal and questions

labs/project-proposal.md, after:

# Submit your project to arXivLabs

<style>
.mkd-img-right {
  float:right;
  width:100%;
  margin-top:0;
}
.mkd-img-thumb {
  max-width:150px !important;
}
blockquote {
  border-left:0;
  margin:0;
  padding:0;
}
.form-proposals {
  margin-bottom: 2em;
  padding-top: 2em;
  border: 2px solid #;
  border-radius: 1em;
  -webkit-box-shadow: 1px 1px 2px 1px rgba(116,144,153,0.76);
  box-shadow: 1px 1px 2px 1px rgba(116,144,153,0.76);
}
@media (min-width: 576px) {
  .mkd-img-right {
    width:calc(50% - 1.25em);
    margin-left:2em;
  }
}
</style>

# Submit your project to arXivLabs

_arXiv Labs is back from vacation._ As of December 2022 we are open for reviewing new proposals. Please <a href="https://arxiv-org.atlassian.net/servicedesk/customer/portal/6">use our support portal</a> to fill out a proposal, or ask questions.

Visit [Labs criteria](criteria.md) to learn more about the criteria for Labs projects.

It is not necessary to be part of a Labs project to use the arXiv APIs. Many projects that use APIs and other methods to access arXiv's metadata, full text, or source files are **not** arXivLabs projects. Learn more about [arXiv API access and data usage here.](https://arxiv.org/help/api/)

arXiv welcomes anyone, from single individuals to large companies, to contribute ideas and propose their project for arXivLabs. All projects must abide by arXiv’s values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy.

<!-- To propose a project fill out all fields in our project proposal form. _Scroll within the frame_ below to access the full form and fill out all fields on each page (a total of four steps). -->

<!-- <iframe src="https://cornell.ca1.qualtrics.com/jfe/form/SV_6utTdLVDVlaTz5Y" height="750px" width="100%" class="form-proposals" title="submit a proposal to arxiv labs"></iframe> -->

<!-- _Is the form above not displaying? <a href="https://cornell.ca1.qualtrics.com/jfe/form/SV_6utTdLVDVlaTz5Y">Open it in Qualtrics</a>_ -->
