about/people/developers.md, before:

---
title: 'Volunteer Developers'
---

# Volunteer Developers

The technical infrastructure and software behind arXiv.org is operated and
maintained by a core team of dedicated IT staff at Cornell. However, it would
not be possible to keep pace with the ever-changing landscape of internet
technology, nor the evolving needs of 21st century science, without the help of
dedicated arXiv users who contribute to the open source software that powers
the arXiv platform.

We are grateful to the following volunteer developers for their contributions to
the arXiv codebase:

- Ben Firshman ([bfirsh](https://github.com/bfirsh))
- Deyan Ginev ([dginev](https://github.com/dginev))
- Takeo Imai ([bonotake](https://github.com/bonotake))
- Warren Price ([warpri81](https://github.com/warpri81))
- John Cook ([johncookds](https://github.com/johncookds))
- Darien Yeung ([Yeungdb](https://github.com/Yeungdb))
- Sawood Alam ([ibnesayeed](https://github.com/ibnesayeed))
- Adhitya Mohan ([poad42](https://github.com/poad42))
- Tanvi Anand ([tanvi15](https://github.com/tanvi15))

Please see our [guidelines for
contributors](https://github.com/arXiv/.github/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md), or
contact Erick Peirson (brp53@cornell.edu), for more information about
contributing to arXiv software development.

Commit message:

add Papers with Code developers Viktor and Robert to acknowledgments

about/people/developers.md, after:

---
title: 'Volunteer Developers'
---

# Volunteer Developers

The technical infrastructure and software behind arXiv.org is operated and
maintained by a core team of dedicated IT staff at Cornell University. However,
it would not be possible to keep pace with the ever-changing landscape of
internet technology, nor the evolving needs of 21st century science, without
the help of dedicated arXiv users who contribute to the open source software
that powers the arXiv platform.

We are grateful to the following volunteer developers for their contributions to
the arXiv codebase:

- Ben Firshman ([bfirsh](https://github.com/bfirsh))
- Deyan Ginev ([dginev](https://github.com/dginev))
- Takeo Imai ([bonotake](https://github.com/bonotake))
- Warren Price ([warpri81](https://github.com/warpri81))
- John Cook ([johncookds](https://github.com/johncookds))
- Darien Yeung ([Yeungdb](https://github.com/Yeungdb))
- Sawood Alam ([ibnesayeed](https://github.com/ibnesayeed))
- Adhitya Mohan ([poad42](https://github.com/poad42))
- Tanvi Anand ([tanvi15](https://github.com/tanvi15))
- Viktor Kerkez ([alefnula] (https://github.com/alefnula))
- Robert Stojnic ([rstojnic] (https://github.com/rstojnic))

Please see our [guidelines for
contributors](https://github.com/arXiv/.github/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md), or
contact nextgen@arxiv.org, for more information about contributing to arXiv
software development.
