source/hiring/index.md, before:

# Careers at arXiv

 arXiv is part of Cornell Tech, the graduate campus and research center of Cornell University. All arXiv employees are Cornell University employees.

 - Positions at arXiv are [staff positions with benefits (endowed)](https://hr.cornell.edu/understand-your-benefits).
 - Visa sponsorship is not available. You must already possess the legal right to work in the US.
 - arXiv is headquartered at the [Cornell Tech campus on Roosevelt Island in New York City](https://tech.cornell.edu/). When hiring, there is a strong preference for candidates who can report to work at that location, but hybrid and/or remote work may be an option.

## Software development

We are already underway on the arXiv CE ("Cloud Edition") project. This is a project to re-home all arXiv services from VMs at Cornell to a cloud provider ([Google Cloud](https://cloud.google.com/)). There are a number of reasons for this transition, including improving arXiv's scalability while modernizing our infrastructure. This will not be a simple port of the existing arXiv code base because this project will:

 - replace the portion of our backends still written in perl and PHP
 - re-architect our article processing to be fully asynchronous, and provide better insight into the processing workflows
 - containerize all, or nearly all arXiv services so we can deploy via Kubernetes or services like [Google Cloud Run](https://cloud.google.com/run/)
 - improve our monitoring and logging facilities so we can more quickly identify and manage production issues with arxiv.org
 - create a robust CI/CD pipeline to give us more confidence that changes we deploy will not cause services to regress

The cloud transition is a pre-requisite to modernizing arXiv as a service. The modernization will enable:
 - arXiv to expand the subject areas that we cover
 - improve the metadata we collect and make available for articles, adding fields that the research community has requested such as funder identification
 - deal with the problem of ambiguous author identities
 - improve accessibility to support users with impairments, particularly visual impairments
 - improve usability for the entire arXiv community

### DevOps Specialist

 We are looking for a software developer with Cloud DevOps experience to lead the effort of modernizing
 our devops system so we can efficiently, reliably, and securely deploy new code, using
 Infrastructure as Code principles. This task will likely involve a fair amount of automation
 via [gitops](https://github.com/readme/featured/defining-gitops), as well as Google Cloud
 Platform tools. The devops lead will also put in place a robust CI/CD pipeline,
 and may also be asked to help fill in test cases.

 - [DevOps Software Engineer](https://cornell.wd1.myworkdayjobs.com/en-US/CornellCareerPage/?q=arxiv)

Commit message:

Remove devops job listing, cleanly this time. (#1164)

source/hiring/index.md, after:

# Careers at arXiv

 arXiv is part of Cornell Tech, the graduate campus and research center of Cornell University. All arXiv employees are Cornell University employees.

 - Positions at arXiv are [staff positions with benefits (endowed)](https://hr.cornell.edu/understand-your-benefits).
 - Visa sponsorship is not available. You must already possess the legal right to work in the US.
 - arXiv is headquartered at the [Cornell Tech campus on Roosevelt Island in New York City](https://tech.cornell.edu/). When hiring, there is a strong preference for candidates who can report to work at that location, but hybrid and/or remote work may be an option.

## Software development

We are already underway on the arXiv CE ("Cloud Edition") project. This is a project to re-home all arXiv services from VMs at Cornell to a cloud provider ([Google Cloud](https://cloud.google.com/)). There are a number of reasons for this transition, including improving arXiv's scalability while modernizing our infrastructure. This will not be a simple port of the existing arXiv code base because this project will:

 - replace the portion of our backends still written in perl and PHP
 - re-architect our article processing to be fully asynchronous, and provide better insight into the processing workflows
 - containerize all, or nearly all arXiv services so we can deploy via Kubernetes or services like [Google Cloud Run](https://cloud.google.com/run/)
 - improve our monitoring and logging facilities so we can more quickly identify and manage production issues with arxiv.org
 - create a robust CI/CD pipeline to give us more confidence that changes we deploy will not cause services to regress

The cloud transition is a pre-requisite to modernizing arXiv as a service. The modernization will enable:
 - arXiv to expand the subject areas that we cover
 - improve the metadata we collect and make available for articles, adding fields that the research community has requested such as funder identification
 - deal with the problem of ambiguous author identities
 - improve accessibility to support users with impairments, particularly visual impairments
 - improve usability for the entire arXiv community

There are no job openings at this time.
