source/about/accessibility_forum.md, before:

# Forum: How do we make accessible research papers a reality?

> **Update:** In response to the high level of interest in this event, we have been able to expand our Zoom hosting capacity and re-open registration:
>
> [Register](https://cornell.ca1.qualtrics.com/jfe/form/SV_br1lFL94OVQB5nE){.button-reg target="_blank"}

![Logo for the arXiv forum](../assets/arxiv-lockup-forum-bgcolor.png){.mkd-img-right alt='logo for the arXiv forum' role="presentation"}

## A practical forum, free and open to all
Hosted by arXiv, this half-day online forum will center the experiences of academic researchers with disabilities who face barriers to accessing and reading papers. The forum will be useful for people across the academic authoring and publishing ecosystem who are committed to making accessible research papers a reality.

**Accessible research papers is a goal within reach.** There are a lot of resources and smart people working on solutions. Together, we can chart a path towards fully accessible research papers, and leave with practical next steps for our own organizations.

---
## Event Details
**Date:** April 17th, 2023

**Time:** 1:00pm - 5:00pm Eastern Time

**Cost:** Free

[Register](https://cornell.ca1.qualtrics.com/jfe/form/SV_br1lFL94OVQB5nE){.button-large target="_blank"}

Forum presentations and the panel discussion will be recorded and shared online after the event. Please keep an eye on this space for those links, and more opportunities to get involved, share your expertise, and contribute to projects that advance accessible research outputs. [Meet our presenters, panelists, and Q&A participants](/about/accessibility_forum/participants.html)

## Schedule (All times are in Eastern Daylight Savings Time)
| Time | Session | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| 1:00pm | **Welcome** | Welcome notes and schedule overview |
| 1:05pm | **Introduction and Keynote** | Jonathan Godfrey: Why is this topic so essential? |
| 1:15pm | **Presentations** | Avneesh Singh, Cynthia Bennett, Lucas Nadolskis, Anne Logan, Breanne Kisselstein, Stacy Scott, and Patrick Smyth will share their unique expertise and lived experiences. How can their personal solutions become global and part of the culture? [Presenter Bios](/about/accessibility_forum/participants.html#presenters) |
| 2:20pm | **10 minute break** |   |
| 2:30pm | **Panel Discussion** | Where in the pipeline do we need to change? Whose responsibility is it to make content accessible? A rich discussion with Neil Soiffer, Raja Kushalnagar, Julie R. Williamson, Frank Mittelbach, Sarah Kane, and facilitated by Bill Kasdorf. [Panelist Bios](/about/accessibility_forum/participants.html#panelists) |
| 3:20pm | **10 minute break** |   |
| 3:30pm | **Q&A Session 1**  |  Breakout room A: What can authors and publishers do right now? And what is coming in the next year? <br><br> Breakout room B: Mythbusting the needs of deaf academics when it comes to accessing research. [Session Bios](/about/accessibility_forum/participants.html#breakouts) |
| 4:00pm | **Switch** | A few minutes to switch breakout rooms for Q&A session 2 |
| 4:05pm | **Q&A Session 2**  |  Breakout room A: How can AI and crowd-sourcing help with accessibility? <br><br> Breakout room B: Digging deeper into image and graph descriptions for scientific content. [Session Bios](/about/accessibility_forum/participants.html#breakouts) |
| 4:35pm | **5 minute break** |   |
| 4:40pm | **Closing Roundtable** | Converging on a shared path |

## An Inclusive Event
We want to make this forum as inclusive as we can. *Please note that ASL interpreters will be present throughout all segments.* When registering, please let us know if additional accommodations will help you participate fully.

### Volunteer opportunity
Are you a fast note taker? Want to get involved and help make the forum even more inclusive? arXiv is looking for five or six individuals to take live notes, each for a portion of the forum. They will complement Zoom captioning and other efforts, and make the forum just that much more inclusive and easy to follow. If you are interested, reach out to [our organizer](mailto:shamsi@arxiv.org) with a quick email.

[Register](https://cornell.ca1.qualtrics.com/jfe/form/SV_br1lFL94OVQB5nE){.button-large target="_blank"}

Commit message:

linking to forum mini site

source/about/accessibility_forum.md, after:

# Forum: How do we make accessible research papers a reality?

> **Update:** In response to the high level of interest in this event, we have been able to expand our Zoom hosting capacity and re-open registration:
>
> [Register](https://cornell.ca1.qualtrics.com/jfe/form/SV_br1lFL94OVQB5nE){.button-reg target="_blank"}

![Logo for the arXiv forum](../assets/arxiv-lockup-forum-bgcolor.png){.mkd-img-right alt='logo for the arXiv forum' role="presentation"}

## A practical forum, free and open to all
**NEW**: Visit our [forum mini-site](https://accessibility2023.arxiv.org/) for the most up to date information.

Hosted by arXiv, this half-day online forum will center the experiences of academic researchers with disabilities who face barriers to accessing and reading papers. The forum will be useful for people across the academic authoring and publishing ecosystem who are committed to making accessible research papers a reality.

**Accessible research papers is a goal within reach.** There are a lot of resources and smart people working on solutions. Together, we can chart a path towards fully accessible research papers, and leave with practical next steps for our own organizations.

---
## Event Details
**Date:** April 17th, 2023

**Time:** 1:00pm - 5:00pm Eastern Time

**Cost:** Free

[Register](https://cornell.ca1.qualtrics.com/jfe/form/SV_br1lFL94OVQB5nE){.button-large target="_blank"}

Forum presentations and the panel discussion will be recorded and shared online after the event. Please keep an eye on this space for those links, and more opportunities to get involved, share your expertise, and contribute to projects that advance accessible research outputs. [Meet our presenters, panelists, and Q&A participants](https://accessibility2023.arxiv.org/participants.html)

## Schedule (All times are in Eastern Daylight Savings Time)
| Time | Session | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| 1:00pm | **Welcome** | Welcome notes and schedule overview |
| 1:05pm | **Introduction and Keynote** | Jonathan Godfrey: Why is this topic so essential? |
| 1:15pm | **Presentations** | Avneesh Singh, Cynthia Bennett, Lucas Nadolskis, Anne Logan, Breanne Kisselstein, Stacy Scott, and Patrick Smyth will share their unique expertise and lived experiences. How can their personal solutions become global and part of the culture? [Presenter Bios](https://accessibility2023.arxiv.org/participants.html) |
| 2:20pm | **10 minute break** |   |
| 2:30pm | **Panel Discussion** | Where in the pipeline do we need to change? Whose responsibility is it to make content accessible? A rich discussion with Neil Soiffer, Raja Kushalnagar, Julie R. Williamson, Frank Mittelbach, Sarah Kane, and facilitated by Bill Kasdorf. [Panelist Bios](https://accessibility2023.arxiv.org/panel.html) |
| 3:20pm | **10 minute break** |   |
| 3:30pm | **Q&A Session 1**  |  Breakout room A: What can authors and publishers do right now? And what is coming in the next year? <br><br> Breakout room B: Mythbusting the needs of deaf academics when it comes to accessing research. [Learn more](https://accessibility2023.arxiv.org/) |
| 4:00pm | **Switch** | A few minutes to switch breakout rooms for Q&A session 2 |
| 4:05pm | **Q&A Session 2**  |  Breakout room A: How can AI and crowd-sourcing help with accessibility? <br><br> Breakout room B: Digging deeper into image and graph descriptions for scientific content. [Learn more](https://accessibility2023.arxiv.org/) |
| 4:35pm | **5 minute break** |   |
| 4:40pm | **Closing Roundtable** | Converging on a shared path |

## An Inclusive Event
We want to make this forum as inclusive as we can. *Please note that ASL interpreters will be present throughout all segments.* When registering, please let us know if additional accommodations will help you participate fully.

### Volunteer opportunity
Are you a fast note taker? Want to get involved and help make the forum even more inclusive? arXiv is looking for five or six individuals to take live notes, each for a portion of the forum. They will complement Zoom captioning and other efforts, and make the forum just that much more inclusive and easy to follow. If you are interested, reach out to [our organizer](mailto:shamsi@arxiv.org) with a quick email.

[Register](https://cornell.ca1.qualtrics.com/jfe/form/SV_br1lFL94OVQB5nE){.button-large target="_blank"}
