# arXiv NIH Request For Information response

*October 06, 2025*

The US government rightly wishes to ensure that articles reporting results of research funded by US
taxpayers are made freely accessible immediately (notices NOT-OD-25-047 and NOT-OD-25-101). The
purpose of notice NOT-OD-25-138 is to ensure that article-processing charges (APCs) levied by journal
publishers for disseminating these are limited, so that “NIH grantees utilize as much of their grant funds
as possible for research activities.” The simplest way to achieve this would be to require NIH-funded
authors to share articles as preprints on non-profit preprint servers such as arXiv (computational and
physical sciences), bioRxiv (biological sciences), and medRxiv (health sciences) before submitting to
journals (arXiv 2023). Preprint servers provide rapid free public access to research at no cost to authors
and, therefore, posting articles to them does not require funds from author's grants. Meanwhile, the
traditional journal process for both print and online content continues to involve protracted review and
selection processes. In addition, in order to satisfy increasing Open Access mandates, journal
publishers have developed business models, such as charging article processing charges (APCs) that
pass the cost of Open Access publishing onto the authors. For selective journals, APCs can reach more
than $12,000 per article. With the legitimization of the pay-to-publish model has come an explosion of
predatory and quasi-predatory journals willing to publish almost anything for a fee. APCs at both ends
of the spectrum constitute a significant financial burden on funders such as NIH.

Preprint servers like arXiv provide a far more rapid and cost-effective mechanism to distribute research
findings. Born digital, these disseminate thousands of articles online in standard formats each month
before they are peer reviewed (for arXiv, typically within a day of submission) at a cost per paper of
roughly $10 to $20, compared to the thousands of dollars that journals frequently charge.

Sharing of preprints was pioneered in physics by arXiv (launched in 1991), which now hosts papers in
eight disciplines, distributing about 1,000 new submissions per working day, with 3 million views per
hour. arXiv currently hosts more than 2.7 million articles and has 5 million active monthly users. bioRxiv
and medRxiv brought the practice to the biological and health sciences in 2013 and 2019, respectively,
and are now viewed by ~10 million people each month. Preprint sharing is thus now widely accepted in
the disciplines funded by NIH. In some cases, high impact papers are only hosted on preprint servers
and not published in traditional journals. There are many examples of this on arXiv, including “[Attention
Is All You Need](https://arxiv.org/abs/1706.03762),” which introduced the Transformer network architecture, and “[DeepSeek-R1:
Incentivizing Reasoning Capability in LLMs via Reinforcement Learning](https://arxiv.org/abs/2501.12948),” which introduced the Deep
Seek reasoning models.

NIH could achieve free public access to the research that it funds and reduce the costs involved simply
by requiring that NIH-funded authors post preprints. An important additional benefit would be the
immediate availability of the research without the long delays associated with journal publication
(typically around one year). An NIH preprint requirement would underscore the fundamental points that
the public should have access to the results of research that is publicly funded and that evaluation of
research is an ongoing process that takes place subsequently. It would also widen the possibilities for
evolution within the publishing system and avoid channeling it towards expensive APC-based journal
models.

#### Reference
arXiv (April 11, 2023). OSTP memorandum response.
[https://info.arxiv.org/about/OSTP-04-11-2023.html](https://info.arxiv.org/about/OSTP-04-11-2023.html)