source/brand/brand-guidelines.md, before:

#Logo and Brand Use

Unauthorized use of our logo causes confusion about who we are. And when it’s use is authorized it’s just as important that we follow consistent guidelines to preserve the legibility, memorability, and legal defensibility that arXiv needs to protect this vital scientific service.
{.intro}

Using our logo consistently is important to present a unified message to the world about who we are. That message is: *arXiv is a place of connection, linking together people and ideas, and connecting them with the world of open science.*

The arXiv logo is a registered trademark and the legal property of arXiv and Cornell University, protected against unauthorized use. Our logo is ready to help us share a consistent, intentional, and meaningful message about who we are with the world.

##General guidelines that cover all logo use cases
1. Use of the name arXiv and associated logos, web addresses, and colors are only allowed for the purpose of acknowledging use of arXiv's API or data from the arXiv corpus.
2. If the logo is displayed for the purposes of acknowledgement, follow the visual layout rules as stated in the arXiv brand guide.
3. The logo should never be altered in any way, redrawn, used in an unspecified color, or reproduced on a background that will impair its visual recognition.
4. The use of the name “arXiv” or “arXiv.org,” in non-arXiv organization names or projects that imply or tend to imply some official connection with arXiv, is prohibited.
5. Except as specifically authorized in writing, use of arXiv’s name and marks in advertising and other promotional vehicles is prohibited when such use is likely to be perceived as an endorsement, even if such an endorsement is not the intention of the person or organization seeking to use arXiv’s name or marks.
6. In order to protect its name and reputation, arXiv regulates the use of arXiv’s name and marks on memorabilia, products, and goods. Third party use of arXiv’s logo for products and other goods is prohibited.

##Further guidelines based on project type

###For products that use the arXiv API
1. Acknowledge arXiv data usage with this statement on your product: ​“Thank you to arXiv for use of its open access interoperability. This [service/ product] was not reviewed or approved by, nor does it necessarily express or reflect the policies or opinions of, arXiv.”
2. Logo use is limited to acknowledgement of the user of arXiv's API or data from the arXiv corpus.
3. The use of the name “arXiv” or “arXiv.org,” in non-arXiv organization names implying or tending to imply some official connection with arXiv, is prohibited.

###For members & affiliates
1. We encourage members and affiliates to acknowledge arXiv with the statement: ​“Proud supporter of arXiv.”
2. arXiv’s logo may be used for the purposes of acknowledging the relationship while the membership or affiliation is active.
3. Use of arXiv’s logo must follow our visual brand guidelines.

###For LABS projects
1. All projects will be shared with the arXiv community on our website under the arXiv Labs sub-brand.
2. Additionally, we encourage Labs projects to acknowledge arXiv with the statement: ​“An arXiv Labs collaboration.”
3. The use of the name “arXiv” or “arxiv.org,” implying or tending to imply some official connection with arXiv, is prohibited.

###Lockups for internal arXiv projects
Lockups are special logo configurations used for internal arXiv projects that have unique impact and a need for distinct branding. See the [Logos page](logos.md) for details.

##Download arXiv logo assets
If your project and usage needs meet the criteria outlined in our use guidelines, you may download the style and format you need below:

| Logo style  | Image      | Download links                          |
| ----------- | --------------- | ------------------------------------ |
| Primary Logo | ![arXiv primary logo](images/brand-logo-primary.jpg){.mkd-img-thumb} |  [SVG](https://cornell.box.com/v/arxiv-logo-svg){ target='_blank'}, [JPG](https://cornell.box.com/v/arxiv-logo-jpg){target='_blank'}, [PNG](https://cornell.box.com/v/arxiv-logo-png){target='_blank'} |
| Large Logomark | ![arXiv logomark](images/brand-logomark-primary-large.jpg){.mkd-img-thumb}  | [SVG](https://cornell.box.com/v/arxiv-logomark-svg){target='_blank'}, [JPG](https://cornell.box.com/v/arxiv-logomark-jpg){target='_blank'}, [PNG](https://cornell.box.com/v/arxiv-logomark-png){target='_blank'} |
| Small Logomark   |  ![arXiv logomark](images/brand-logomark-primary.jpg){.mkd-img-thumb} | [SVG](https://cornell.box.com/v/arxiv-logomark-small-svg){target='_blank'}, [JPG](https://cornell.box.com/v/arxiv-logomark-small-jpg){target='_blank'}, [PNG](https://cornell.box.com/v/arxiv-logomark-small-png){target='_blank'} |

Commit message:

Charles/2025 swe hiring remove (#1138)
* update trademark language

* Remove the "Revision:" at the end of the doc (#1037) (#1042)

... in favor of the "effective date" embedded in the text.

* Take down job listings

* update trademark language

* Take down job listings

---------

Co-authored-by: Alison Hofer <alisonhofer@arxiv.org>
Co-authored-by: jschriver <155456760+jschriver@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: kimlaine514 <78227190+kimlaine514@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: jdmagyar <155487349+jdmagyar@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: Jake Weiskoff <jweiskoff@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: katboboris <144472932+katboboris@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: SBBCornell <sbb226@cornell.edu>
Co-authored-by: Jim Entwood <je277@cornell.edu>
Co-authored-by: Rebecca Rich Goldweber <36858311+rebamrich@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: Erin <78058179+kyokukou@users.noreply.github.com>

source/brand/brand-guidelines.md, after:

#arXiv Name and Logo Use

The arXiv<sup>&reg;</sup> name and logo are registered trademarks and the legal property of arXiv and Cornell University. Unauthorized use of our logo or name is prohibited.
{.intro}

Our logo and name are ready to help us share a consistent, intentional, and meaningful message about who we are with the world. Unauthorized use causes confusion about who we are. And when its use *is authorized* it is just as important that we follow consistent guidelines to preserve the legibility, memorability, and legal defensibility that arXiv needs to protect this vital scientific service.

Using our logo and name consistently is important to present a unified message to the world about who we are. That message is: *arXiv is a place of connection, linking together people and ideas and connecting them with the world of open science.*

##General guidelines that cover all logo and name use cases
1. Use of the name arXiv and associated logos, web addresses, and colors are only allowed for the purpose of acknowledging use of arXiv's API or data from the arXiv corpus.
2. If the logo is displayed for the purposes of acknowledgement, follow the visual layout rules as stated in the arXiv brand guide.
3. The logo should never be altered in any way, redrawn, used in an unspecified color, or reproduced on a background that will impair its visual recognition.
4. The use of the name “arXiv” or “arXiv.org,” in non-arXiv organization names or projects that imply or tend to imply some official connection with arXiv, is prohibited.
5. Except as specifically authorized in writing, use of arXiv’s name and marks in advertising and other promotional vehicles is prohibited when such use is likely to be perceived as an endorsement, even if such an endorsement is not the intention of the person or organization seeking to use arXiv’s name or marks.
6. In order to protect its name and reputation, arXiv regulates the use of arXiv’s name and marks on memorabilia, products, and goods. Third party use of arXiv’s logo for products and other goods is prohibited.

##Further guidelines based on project type

###For products that use the arXiv API
1. Acknowledge arXiv data usage with this statement on your product: ​“Thank you to arXiv for use of its open access interoperability. This [service/ product] was not reviewed or approved by, nor does it necessarily express or reflect the policies or opinions of, arXiv.”
2. Logo use is limited to acknowledgement of the user of arXiv's API or data from the arXiv corpus.
3. The use of the name “arXiv” or “arXiv.org,” in non-arXiv organization names implying or tending to imply some official connection with arXiv, is prohibited.

###For members & affiliates
1. We encourage members and affiliates to acknowledge arXiv with the statement: ​“Proud supporter of arXiv.”
2. arXiv’s logo may be used for the purposes of acknowledging the relationship while the membership or affiliation is active.
3. Use of arXiv’s logo must follow our [visual guidelines](logos.md).

###For arXivLabs projects
1. All projects will be shared with the arXiv community on our website under the arXivLabs sub-brand.
2. Additionally, we encourage arXivLabs projects to acknowledge arXiv with the statement: ​“An arXivLabs collaboration.”
3. The use of the name “arXiv” or “arxiv.org,” implying or tending to imply some official connection with arXiv, is prohibited.

###Lockups for internal arXiv projects
Lockups are special logo configurations used for internal arXiv projects that have unique impact and a need for distinct branding. See the [Logos page](logos.md) for details.

##Download arXiv logo assets
If your project and usage needs meet the criteria outlined in our use guidelines, you may download the style and format you need below:

| Logo style  | Image      | Download links                          |
| ----------- | --------------- | ------------------------------------ |
| Primary Logo | ![arXiv primary logo](images/brand-logo-primary.jpg){.mkd-img-thumb} |  [SVG](https://cornell.box.com/v/arxiv-logo-svg){ target='_blank'}, [JPG](https://cornell.box.com/v/arxiv-logo-jpg){target='_blank'}, [PNG](https://cornell.box.com/v/arxiv-logo-png){target='_blank'} |
| Large Logomark | ![arXiv logomark](images/brand-logomark-primary-large.jpg){.mkd-img-thumb}  | [SVG](https://cornell.box.com/v/arxiv-logomark-svg){target='_blank'}, [JPG](https://cornell.box.com/v/arxiv-logomark-jpg){target='_blank'}, [PNG](https://cornell.box.com/v/arxiv-logomark-png){target='_blank'} |
| Small Logomark   |  ![arXiv logomark](images/brand-logomark-primary.jpg){.mkd-img-thumb} | [SVG](https://cornell.box.com/v/arxiv-logomark-small-svg){target='_blank'}, [JPG](https://cornell.box.com/v/arxiv-logomark-small-jpg){target='_blank'}, [PNG](https://cornell.box.com/v/arxiv-logomark-small-png){target='_blank'} |

> The arXiv<sup>&reg;</sup> name and logo are registered trademarks and the legal property of arXiv and Cornell University. Unauthorized use of our logo or name is prohibited. Please review the guidelines above to ensure proper use of the arXiv name and logo.
