source/brand/voice.md, before:

#The arXiv Voice

arXiv’s voice, tone, and language reflect our identity -- current and aspirational -- as an innovative and integral component of the world’s research landscape. Our voice can be summarized as reliable, innovative, and approachable.
{.intro}

##Personality
arXiv’s personality has the potential to create emotional connections across our communities. It’s also an important way to distinguish arXiv from its peers and competitors. arXiv’s personality helps us decide how to present arXiv to various audiences.

##Tone
arXiv’s tone is used to communicate our personality and can be described as conversational and direct. We communicate in as few words as possible with friendly, non-technical language whenever possible. Researchers rely on arXiv for fast access to cutting edge work and archived articles, and our voice, tone, and language should reflect arXiv’s important role in researchers’ lives. arXiv’s personality has the potential to create emotional connections across our communities. It’s also an important way to distinguish arXiv from its peers and competitors. arXiv’s personality helps us decide how to present arXiv to various audiences.

Communicating with consistent language and grammar is important to clearly reflect our professionalism.

##How we describe arXiv
We communicate these messages in an approachable, open, and professional manner. Specifically, we cater to our diverse research community of readers, authors, and librarians at all career stages. We use clear language, we take concerns seriously, and we never minimize anyone’s struggles. Additionally, we honor and highlight connections with our many stakeholders by frequently quoting diverse members of the extended arXiv community.

###One Liner
arXiv is a curated research-sharing platform that empowers people around the world to read and contribute cutting edge work quickly in an open access environment.

###Our relationship with Cornell Tech
arXiv is organized exclusively for educational and scientific purposes. It is part of Cornell University and reports organizationally to the Dean of Cornell Tech, who acts as arXiv’s steward.

> **“I am honored to serve as the Cornell steward for arXiv because I so firmly believe in the mission: to serve science by making sharing of papers open, fast, reliable, and sustainable.”**
>
> —Dr. Greg Morrisett, Dean of Cornell Tech

Commit message:

update brand pages with editorial guide content

source/brand/voice.md, after:

#The arXiv Voice

arXiv’s voice, tone, and language reflect our identity, both current and aspirational. arXiv is an innovative and integral component of the world’s research landscape, and researchers rely on arXiv for fast access to cutting edge work and archived articles. Our communications reflect arXiv’s significant role in researchers’ lives.
{.intro}

##Tone
arXiv’s communication style is **conversational, professional, and direct.** We communicate in as few words as possible, using clear language and avoiding jargon.

##How we describe arXiv
arXiv is a place of connection, where people around the world can read and contribute cutting edge work quickly. As a pioneer in digital open access, arXiv.org now hosts more than 1.8 million scholarly works in eight subject areas, curated by our strong community of volunteer moderators who balance content quality and distribution speed. arXiv offers solutions for a broad range of services: from submission, compilation, production, retrieval, search and discovery, web distribution, and machine-readability, together with moderation, content curation, and preservation. Our emphasis on openness, collaboration, and scholarship provide the strong foundation on which arXiv thrives.  

##One Liner
arXiv is a curated research-sharing platform, open to all.

##Our relationship to Cornell and Cornell Tech
arXiv is organized exclusively for educational and scientific purposes. It is part of Cornell University and reports organizationally to the Dean of Cornell Tech, who acts as arXiv’s steward.

> **“I am honored to serve as the Cornell steward for arXiv because I so firmly believe in the mission: to serve science by making sharing of papers open, fast, reliable, and sustainable.”**
>
> —Dr. Greg Morrisett, Dean of Cornell Tech
