corr/index.md, before:

### Welcome to the Computing Research Repository (CoRR)

Welcome to the Computing Research Repository (CoRR) in arXiv. The Computer Science section of arXiv was established in 1998 through a partnership of the Association for Computing Machinery, the Networked Computer Science Technical Reference Library, and arXiv.

Please see the [description of the subject categories](subjectclasses) for details. Papers can be accessed from [https://arxiv.org/archive/cs](/archive/cs). New readers and authors to arXiv should see our help pages for [registration](/help/registerhelp), [submission](/help/submit) and [subscription](/help/subscribe).

### CoRR Advisory Committee

The advisory committee members serve as consultants to Cornell University and to the arXiv [Scientific Advisory Board](/help/scientific_ad_board). All arXiv policy decisions are ultimately made by Cornell University.

- Krzysztof Apt, CWI, Amsterdam  
- Ron Boisvert, NIST  
- Carol Hutchins, NYU  
- Scott Delman, ACM  
- Jon Doyle, North Carolina State  
- Ed Fox, Virginia Tech  
- Lee Giles, Penn State  
- Joseph Halpern, Cornell (chair)  
- Michael Lesk, Rutgers  
- Andrew McCallum, U. Massachusetts  
- Steve Minton, ISI  
- Andrew Odlyzko, U. Minnesota  
- Michael O'Donnell, U. Chicago  
- Jerome Saltzer, MIT  
- Erik Sandewall, Linkoping, Sweden  
- Stuart Shieber, Harvard  
- Jeff Ullman, Stanford

Commit message:

update categories link
Moving all archives to standard organization within the site

corr/index.md, after:

### Welcome to the Computing Research Repository (CoRR)

Welcome to the Computing Research Repository (CoRR) in arXiv. The Computer Science section of arXiv was established in 1998 through a partnership of the Association for Computing Machinery, the Networked Computer Science Technical Reference Library, and arXiv.

You can view the subject category descriptions and browse papers from [https://arxiv.org/archive/cs](/archive/cs). New readers and authors to arXiv should see our help pages for [registration](/help/registerhelp), [submission](/help/submit) and [subscription](/help/subscribe).

### CoRR Advisory Committee

The advisory committee members serve as consultants to Cornell University and to the arXiv [Scientific Advisory Board](/help/scientific_ad_board). All arXiv policy decisions are ultimately made by Cornell University.

- Krzysztof Apt, CWI, Amsterdam  
- Ron Boisvert, NIST  
- Carol Hutchins, NYU  
- Scott Delman, ACM  
- Jon Doyle, North Carolina State  
- Ed Fox, Virginia Tech  
- Lee Giles, Penn State  
- Joseph Halpern, Cornell (chair)  
- Michael Lesk, Rutgers  
- Andrew McCallum, U. Massachusetts  
- Steve Minton, ISI  
- Andrew Odlyzko, U. Minnesota  
- Michael O'Donnell, U. Chicago  
- Jerome Saltzer, MIT  
- Erik Sandewall, Linkoping, Sweden  
- Stuart Shieber, Harvard  
- Jeff Ullman, Stanford
