# Appealing a moderation decision 

It is possible to appeal the classification of an announced article or the decision to decline a submission. In some cases, we may require that a paper be accepted for publication in a conventional journal before an appeal is considered. Note that some works that have been published or accepted by a journal may still be declined at arXiv’s discretion.

If you disagree with a [moderation](/help/moderation) decision, you may appeal for your desired outcome. 

Appeals should be sent through our [user support portal](https://arxiv.org/support/moderation_help). If you cannot access the portal you can contact The arXiv Content Management & User Support Team by email at moderation@arxiv.org. 

The appeals process allows moderators additional time to reconsider a submission, but repeated appeals with no additional information cannot be considered.

## What is a moderation appeal?

An appeal is a message sent to The arXiv Content Management & User Support Team. You are not communicating directly with the original moderators. In general, appeals are for additional scrutiny of moderation [decisions before](help/moderation#what-policies) and [after announcement](/help/moderation#policies-after). No third-party appeal for inclusion will be considered. 

Your appeal message must include all relevant details, such as paper/submit IDs, former correspondence, etc. It must also include your rationale for why the moderators should reconsider the work. This should include a detailed description of the research content of your article, and how the content of your paper directly applies to that category (see the [category taxonomy](/category_taxonomy) for specific category descriptions). For declined submissions, it may be desirable for you to include a pdf copy of your work when appealing, as they are not retained in perpetuity. 

## What happens when I appeal?

You will receive a response from The arXiv Content Management & User Support Team when your appeal has been sent to our appellate moderators for consideration. This response will include a tracking identifier within the email `Subject:` that is automatically generated by the user support portal. This tracking identifier is how we will keep track of your appeal, so it is important that you do not lose this information. 

The appeals process begins after acknowledgment of your appeal. If your submission was recently declined, The arXiv Content Management & User Support Team will restore your submission to [on hold](/help/submit_status#on_hold) status, if possible. Submissions that have expired or that have already been announced cannot be restored, but this not a roadblock to your appeal. 

The appellate moderator will be sent any correspondence related to the work, and will begin to consider the content of your appeal as well as the original moderation decision. Please be patient, as moderation appeals may be complicated and take some time. Appeals are handled in addition to the moderators’ daily duties, professional work, etc. Most appeals are resolved within a two week period, but some may take longer. If you have not heard from arXiv within two weeks of receiving the notification that your appeal has been received, please feel free to reach out to us for a status update through the appropriate contact channel.

When a decision is made by the appellate moderators, you will receive a follow-up message from The arXiv Content Management & User Support Team with the results of your appeal. 

## What happens if my appeal is accepted? 

If your appeal is accepted, the message you receive from The arXiv Content Management & User Support Team will have instructions for resubmission (if needed), or will provide you with the [status](/help/submit_status) of your submission. In some instances it may be required that you make some changes in order to accommodate the appellate moderators' decision. 

*Note* that for submissions that have been reclassified, they will not receive a second "new" announcement within the category. 

## What if my appeal is denied?

If the article was in a status pending announcement, it will return to a declined state. If your appeal was for reclassification, no changes will be made. You will receive a message from The arXiv Content Management & User Support Team, that only explains this status. Our moderators are not referees and do not provide detailed feedback with their decisions. The decision to decline a submission lies wholly with arXiv.

<span id=#final></span>
## Can all decisions be appealed? 

When an appeal is declined by the appellate moderators, no further appeal is possible. The arXiv Content Management & User Support Team staff will not provide detailed feedback regarding the appeal and will not enter into extended back and forth regarding a declined appeal. Extreme cases may be addressed to The arXiv [Leadership Team](/about/people/leadership_team), who may consult the appellate moderators or subject area advisory committees as needed. 

